Hadith - 189
‘Abdallah b. ‘Amr reported God’s messenger as saying, “Pass on information from me, even if it is only a verse of the Qur’an; and relate traditions from the Bani Isra'il, for there is no restriction; but let him who deliberately lies against me come to his abode in hell.” 
Bukhari transmitted it.
Hadith - 190
Samura b. Jundub and al-Mughira b. Shu'ba reported God’s messenger as saying, “If anyone relates a tradition from me thinking that 
it is false, he is one of the liars.” Muslim transmitted it.
Hadith - 191
Mu'awiya reported God’s messenger as saying, “When God wishes 
good for anyone He instructs him in the religion. I am only a distributor; God gives.” (Bukhari and Muslim.)
Hadith - 192
Abu Huraira reported God's messenger as saying, “Men are of
different origins just as gold and silver are; the best among them in
the pre-Islamic period are the best among them in Islam when they are 
versed in the religion.” Muslim transmitted it.
Hadith - 193
Ibn Mas'ud reported God’s messenger as saying, “Two people only
may be envied: a man to whom God has given property, empowering 
him to dispose of it on what is right; and a man to whom God has given
wisdom who acts according to it and teaches it.” (Bukhari and Muslim).
Hadith - 194
Abu Huraira reported God’s messenger as saying, “When a man 
dies no further reward is recorded for his actions, with three exceptions: sadaqa which continues to be supplied, or knowledge from which benefit
continues to be reaped, or the prayers of a good son for his dead father.”
Muslim transmitted it.
Hadith - 195
He also reported God’s messenger as saying, “ If anyone removes 
one of the anxieties of this world from a believer, God will remove one 
of the anxieties of the day of resurrection from him; if one smooths
the way for one who is destitute, God will smooth the way for him in
this world and the next; and if anyone conceals the faults of a Muslim,
God will conceal his faults, in this world and the next. God helps a
man as long as he helps his brother. If anyone pursues a path in
search of knowledge, God will thereby make easy for him a path to paradise. No company will gather in a mosque to recite God’s Book and
study it together without calmness descending on them, mercy covering
them, the angels surrounding them, and God mentioning them among
those who are with Him. But he who is made slow by his actions will
not be speeded by his genealogy.” Muslim transmitted it.
Hadith - 196
He also reported God’s messenger as saying, “The first person to
be judged on the day of resurrection will be a man who died as a martyr.
He will be brought forward, and after God has reminded him of the
favour He showed him and the man acknowledges it, He will ask,
‘What did you do to show gratitude for it?’ The man will reply, ‘I
fought for Thy cause till I was martyred.’ God will say, ‘You lie. You
fought that people might call you courageous, and they have done so.’
Command will then be issued about him, and he will be dragged on his
face and thrown into hell. Next a man who has acquired and taught
knowledge and read the Qur’an will be brought forward, and after God
has reminded him of the favour He showed him and the man acknowledges
it, He will ask, ‘What did you do to show gratitude for it?’ The man
will reply, ‘I acquired and taught knowledge and read the Qur’an for
Thy sake.’ God will say, 'You lie. You acquired knowledge that people
might call you learned, and you read the Qur’an that they might call
you a reader, and they have done so.’ Command will then be issued
about him, and he will be dragged on his face and thrown into hell.
Next a man whom God has made affluent and whom He has given all kinds
of property will be brought forward, and after God has reminded him
of the favour He showed him and the man acknowledges it, He will ask,
‘What did you do to show gratitude for it?’ The man will reply, ‘I
have not neglected to give liberally for Thy sake to all the causes
approved by Thee for this purpose.’ God will say, ‘You lie. You did
it that people might call you generous, and they have done so.’ Command will then be issued about him, and he will be dragged on his face
and thrown into hell.” Muslim transmitted it.
Hadith - 197
‘Abdallah b. ‘Amr reported God’s messenger as saying, “God does
not take away knowledge by removing it from men, but takes it away
by taking away the learned, so that when He leaves no learned man, men
will take ignorant men as leaders. Causes will be presented to them
and they will pass judgement without knowledge, erring and leading
others into error.” (Bukhari and Muslim.)
Hadith - 198
Shaqiq said that ‘Abdallah b. Mas'ud used to exhort the people
every Thursday. A man said, “ I wish, Abu ‘Abd ar-Rahman , that you
would give us a daily exhortation.” He replied, “My dislike of wearying you prevents me from that, so I am considerate in my exhortations
to you as God’s messenger was to us for fear of causing us aversion.”
(Bukhari and Muslim.)
Hadith - 199
Anas said that when the Prophet made a statement he repeated it
three times so that it would be understood, and that when he met a company and gave them a salutation he did it three times. Bukhari
transmitted it.
Hadith - 200
Abu Mas'ud al-Ansari told of a man who came to the Prophet and
said, “My camel has become jaded, so give me a mount.” On his replying that he had none, a man said, “Messenger of God, I can guide him
to one who will give him a mount.” God’s messenger then said, “He
who guides to what is good will have a reward equivalent to that of him
who does it.” Muslim transmitted it.
Hadith - 201
Jarir said that: One early morning when they were with God’s messenger some people came to him who were scantily clad, wearing striped
woollen garments,* with swords over their shoulders; most, nay all of
them, belonging to Mudar. God’s messenger showed signs of anger on
his face because of the poverty-stricken state in which he saw them,
and went in. After a little he came out and gave orders to Bilal who
uttered the call to prayer and announced that the time to begin prayer
had come. When the Prophet had prayed, he delivered an address in 
which he said, “ ‘Fear your Lord, people, who created you from one
soul . . . God watches over you.’ ‘Fear God, and let a soul look to
what it has sent forward for the morrow.  Let a man give sadaqa
from his dinars and dirhams, his clothing, his sa‘ of wheat and sa‘ of
dates, even if it is only half a date.” Jarir said: One of the Ansar
brought a purse which was almost too big for his hand to hold, indeed
it was too big. Then people came one after the other till I saw two
mounds of food and clothing, with the result that I saw the face of God’s
messenger glowing as if it were golden. He then said, “If anyone establishes a good sunna in Islam he will have a reward for it and the
equivalent of the rewards of those who act upon it after him, without
theirs being diminished in any respect; but he who establishes a bad
sunna in Islam will bear the responsibility of it and the responsibility
of those who act upon it after him, without theirs being diminished in
any respect.” Muslim transmitted it. 
*[The text has an-nimar au al-'aba, thus giving an alternative word. This is not indicated in
the translation above.]
Hadith - 202
Ibn Mas'ud reported God’s messenger as saying, “No life is taken
unjustly without a portion of its blood being laid at the door of Adam’s
first son, because he was the first to introduce murder.” (Bukhari and
Muslim). We shall mention the tradition from Mu'awiya, “A section of
my people will continue .. .”* in the chapter on the reward of this
people, if God will.
*Book XXV, Chap. xli. The wording is slightly different.
Hadith - 203
Kathir b. Qais told how, when he was sitting with Abu Darda' in
the mosque of Damascus, a man came to him and said, “Abu Darda',
I have come to you from the town of the Messenger for a tradition I have
heard that you relate from God's messenger. I have come for no other
purpose.” He replied that he had heard God’s messenger say, “ If anyone travels on a road in search of knowledge God will cause him to
travel on one of the roads of paradise, the angels will lower their wings
from good pleasure with one who seeks knowledge, and the inhabitants
of the heavens and the earth and the fish in the depth of the water will
ask forgiveness for him. The superiority of the learned man over the
devout man is like that of the moon on the night when it is full over the
rest of the stars. The learned are the heirs of the prophets who leave
neither dinar nor dirham, leaving only knowledge, and he who accepts it
accepts an abundant portion.” Ahmad, Tirmidhi, Abu Dawud, Ibn Majah
and Darimi transmitted it, Tirmidhi calling Him Qais b. Kathir.
Hadith - 204
Abu Umama al-Bahili said that: Two men, one learned and the
other devout, were mentioned to God’s messenger, who then said, “The
superiority of the learned man over the devout man is like mine over
the most contemptible among you,” adding, “God, His angels, the inhabitants of the heavens and the earth, even the ant in its hole and even
the fish invoke blessings on him who teaches men what is good.”
Tirmidhi transmitted it. 
Darimi transmitted it from Makhul in mursal
form, but did not mention the two men. He said, “The superiority of
the learned man over the devout man is like mine over the most contemptible among you.” Then he recited this verse, “Only those of His
servants who are learned fear God," (35:28) 1 then went on with the tradition to
the end.
Hadith - 205
Abu Sa'id al-Khudri reported God’s messenger as saying, “ People
will follow you, and men will come to you from all regions of the earth
seeking understanding about the religion; so when they come to you,
give them good counsel.” Tirmidhi transmitted it.
Hadith - 206
Abu Huraira reported God's messenger as saying, “A word which
contains wisdom is the stray beast* of the wise man, so wherever he finds
it he is most entitled to it.” Tirmidhi and Ibn Majah transmitted it,
Tirmidhi saying that this is a gharib tradition and that Ibrahim b. al-Fadl the transmitter is declared to be weak in tradition.
*i.e. something to be sought.
Hadith - 207
Ibn ‘Abbas reported God’s messenger as saying, “One faqih has
more power over the devil than a thousand devout men.” Tirmidhi and
Ibn Majah transmitted it.
Hadith - 208
Anas reported God’s messenger as saying, “The search for knowledge is an obligation laid on every Muslim, but he who commits it to
those who are unworthy of it is like one who puts necklaces of jewels,
pearls and gold on swine.” Ibn Majah transmitted it. Baihaqi transmitted it in Shu'ab al-iman up to the word “Muslim”, saying that this
is a tradition whose text is well known but whose isnad is weak, it being
transmitted by many ways all of which are weak.
Hadith - 209
Abu Huraira reported God’s messenger as saying, “Two qualities
are not found together in a hypocrite: good behaviour and knowledge
of religion.” Tirmidhi transmitted it.
Hadith - 210
Anas reported God’s messenger as saying, “He who goes out in
search of knowledge is in God’s path till he returns.” Tirmidhi and
Darimi transmitted it.
Hadith - 211
Sakhbara al-Azdi reported God’s messenger as saying, “If anyone
seeks knowledge, it will be an atonement for past sins.” Tirmidhi and
Darimi transmitted it, Tirmidhi saying that this is a tradition whose
isnad is weak, and that Abu Dawud the transmitter is declared to be
weak.
Hadith - 212
Abu Sa'id al-Khudri reported God’s messenger as saying, “A believer will never be satisfied with the good he hears till he reaches
paradise.” Tirmidhi transmitted it.
Hadith - 213
Abu Huraira reported God’s messenger as saying, “He who is
asked about something he knows and conceals it will have a bridle of fire
put on him on the day of resurrection.” Ahmad, Abu Dawud and
Tirmidhi transmitted it, and Ibn Majah transmitted it from Anas.
Hadith - 214
Ka'b b. Malik reported God’s messenger as saying, “If anyone
seeks knowledge to use it in vying with the learned, or disputing with
the foolish, or to attract men’s attention to himself, God will bring him
into hell.” Tirmidhi transmitted it, and Ibn Majah transmitted it from
Ibn ‘Umar.
Hadith - 215
Abu Huraira reported God’s messenger as saying, “If anyone
acquires knowledge of things by which God’s good pleasure is sought,
but acquires it only to get some worldly advantage, he will not experience the ‘arf, i.e. the odour, of paradise on the day of resurrection.”
Ahmad, Abu Dawud and Ibn Majah transmitted it.
Hadith - 216
Ibn Mas'ud reported God’s messenger as saying, “God brighten a
man who hears what I say, gets it by heart, retains it, and passes it on
to others! Many a bearer of knowledge is not versed in it, and many a
bearer of knowledge conveys it to one who is more versed than he is.
There are three things on account of which no rancour enters a Muslim's
heart: sincere action for God’s sake, good counsel to Muslims, and hold-
ing fast to their community, for their invitation includes those who are
beyond them.” Shafi‘i transmitted it, also Baihaqi in al-Madkhal.
Ahmad, Tirmidhi, Abu Dawud, Ibn Majah and Darimi transmitted it from
Zaid b. Thabit, but Tirmidhi and Abu Dawud did not mention, “There
are three things on account of which no rancour enters..." to the end.
Hadith - 217
Ibn Mas'ud said that he heard God’s messenger saying, “God
brighten a man who hears something from us and conveys it to others
as he heard it, for many a one to whom it is brought retains it better
than the one who heard it.” Tirmidhi and Ibn Majah transmitted it,
and Darimi transmitted it from Abu Darda'.
Hadith - 218
Ibn ‘Abbas reported God’s messenger as saying, “Be on your guard
about tradition from me, except what you know; for he who lies about
me deliberately will certainly come to his abode in hell.” Tirmidhi
transmitted it, and Ibn Majah transmitted it from Ibn Mas'ud and Jabir,
but did not mention, “ Be on your guard about tradition from me, except
what you know.”
Hadith - 219
Ibn ‘Abbas reported God’s messenger as saying, “Let him who
interprets the Qur’an in the light of his opinion come to his abode
in hell.” A version has, “Let him who interprets the Qur’an without
knowledge come to his abode in hell.” Tirmidhi transmitted it.
Hadith - 220
Jundub reported God’s messenger as saying, “ If anyone interprets
the Qur’an in the light of his own opinion and is right, he has erred.”
Tirmidhi transmitted it.
Hadith - 221
Abu Huraira reported God’s messenger as saying, “Disputation
about the Qur’an is infidelity.” Ahmad and Abu Dawud transmitted it.
Hadith - 222
‘Amr b. Shu'aib quoted the authority of his father from his grandfather who said that the Prophet heard some people disagreeing about
the Qur’an and said, “It was just on this account that your predecessors
perished: they set parts of God’s Book against others, whereas God's
Book was sent down only to be consistent; so do not use parts to falsify
others. Speak about as much of it as you know, but where you are ignorant entrust it to him who knows.” Ahmad and Ibn Majah transmitted it.
Hadith - 223
Ibn Mas'ud reported God's messenger as saying, “The Qur'an was
sent down in seven modes. Every verse in it has an external and an
internal meaning, and every interdiction has a source of reference.”
Baghawi transmitted it in Sharh as-sunna.
Hadith - 224
‘Abdallah b. ‘Amr reported God's messenger as saying, “Knowledge has three categories: a precise verse, or an established sunna, or
a firm obligatory duty. Anything else is an extra.” Abu Dawud and Ibn Majah transmitted it.
Hadith - 225
‘Auf b. Malik al-Ashja‘i reported God’s messenger as saying, "Only
a ruler, or one put in charge, or one who is presumptuous gives instruction."* 
Abu Dawud transmitted it, and Darimi transmitted it from ' Amr b. Shu'aib from his father from his grandfather. A version has, "Or a hypocrite” instead of "one who is presumptuous”. 
*The word used here is yaqussu, which may be translated as given above, but which may also
be translated as “inflicts punishment.”
Hadith - 226
Abu Huraira reported God’s messenger as saying, “If anyone is
given a legal decision ignorantly, the sin rests on the one who gave it;
and if anyone advises his brother, knowing that right guidance lies in
another direction, he has deceived him.” Abu Dawud transmitted it.
Hadith - 227
Mu'awiya said that the Prophet forbade the discussion of thorny
questions. Abu Dawud transmitted it.
Hadith - 228
Abu Huraira reported God’s messenger as saying, "Learn the
things which are made obligatory and the Qur’an, and teach them to
people, for I shall die.” Tirmidhi transmitted it.
Hadith - 229
Abu Darda’ told how God’s messenger, on an occasion when they
were with him, turned his eyes to the sky and said, "This is a time when
knowledge will be snatched away from men, so that they will be unable
to acquire any.” Tirmidhi transmitted it.
Hadith - 230
Abu Huraira transmitted , "The time is approaching when men will urge on their camels in search of knowledge, but
will find no one more learned than the learned man of Medina.” Tirmidhi transmitted it. and in his Jami' he quotes Ibn ‘Uyaina as saying
that Malik b. Anas was meant, and the same view is expressed by ‘Abd
ar-Razzaq. Ishab b. Musa said he heard Ibn ‘Uyaina say that he
was al-‘Umari the ascetic, whose name was ‘Abd al-‘Aziz b. ‘Abdallah.
Hadith - 231
He also reported among the material he knew to come from God’s
messenger that he said, "At the beginning of every century God will
send one who will renew its religion for this people.” Abu Dawud
transmitted it.
Hadith - 232
Ibrahim b. ‘Abd ar-Rahman al-‘Udhri reported God's messenger
as saying, "In every successive century those who are reliable authorities
will preserve this knowledge, rejecting the changes made by extremists, the plagiarisms of those who make false claims for themselves, and the
interpretations of the ignorant.”*
*The source is lacking. The editor of the Damascus edition of the Mishkat says the tradition
is given by Baihaqi in al-Madkhal.
Hadith - 233
We shall mention Jabir’s tradition, “The only cure for perplexity is
to ask”* in the chapter on performing ablution with sand, if God will. 
*Book 111. Chap. xi, section ii.
Hadith - 234
Al-Hasan reported in mursal form that God’s messenger said, “If
death comes to anyone when he is seeking knowledge with the purpose
of using it to revivify Islam, there will be only one degree between him
and the prophets in paradise.” Darimi transmitted it.
Hadith - 235
He also reported in mursal form that God’s messenger was asked
which of two men who had been among the B. Isra’il was superior, one
who was a learned man who observed the prescribed prayers, then sat
and taught men what is good, the other who fasted by day and prayed
during the night. He replied, “The superiority of this learned man who
observed the prescribed prayers, then sat and taught men what is good
over the devout man who fasted by day and prayed during the night is
like my superiority over the most contemptible among you.” Darimi
transmitted it.
Hadith - 236
‘Ali reported God’s messenger as saying, “Good is the man learned
in religion who, if people have need of him benefits them, but who, if
they ignore him enriches himself.”* Razin transmitted it. 
*i.e. with religious exercises and study.
Hadith - 237
Ikrima reported Ibn ‘Abbas as saying, “Talk to the people once
every Friday, but if you object, then twice, and if you want more, then
three times, but do not weary the people with this Qur’an. And do not
let me find you coming to the people when they are talking about their
concerns, interrupting them in their talk by addressing them, and so
wearying them. Keep silent, and when they request you, talk to them
at a time when they want it. Look out for rhymed prose in supplications and avoid it, for I know that God’s messenger and his companions
did not use it.” Bukhari transmitted it.
Hadith - 238
Wathila b. al-Asqa‘ reported God’s messenger as saying, “He who seeks knowledge and attains it will have a double portion of reward,
but if he does not attain it he will have a single portion of reward."
Darimi transmitted it.
Hadith - 239
Abu Huraira reported God’s messenger as saying, “Among the
actions and good deeds for which a believer will continue to receive reward after his death are knowledge which he taught and spread, a good
son whom he left behind, or a copy of the Qur'an which he left as a
legacy, or a mosque which he built, or a house which he built for the
traveller, or a stream which he caused to flow, or a sadaqa which he
gave from his property when he was alive and well, for which he will
continue to receive reward after his death.” Ibn Majah transmitted it,
and also Baihaqi in Shu'ab al-iman.
Hadith - 240
‘Aisha said she heard God’s messenger say that God revealed
to him, “ If anyone follows a path in search of knowledge, I shall make
easy for him the road to paradise; and if I deprive anyone of his eyes,
I shall guarantee paradise to him in return for them. Superiority in
knowledge is better than superiority in worship, and the basis of the
religion is abstinence.” Baihaqi transmitted it in Shu'ab al-iman.
Hadith - 241
Ibn ‘Abbas said, “Studying together for an hour during the night
is better than spending the whole night in devotions.” Darimi transmitted it.
Hadith - 242
‘Abdallah b. ‘Amr told of God’s messenger coming upon two
groups in his mosque and saying, “They are both engaged in what is
good, but one of them is superior to the other. These ones are praying and supplicating God who, if He wills, may answer their prayers
but, if He wills, may refuse them. Those ones are learning knowledge*
and teaching the ignorant, so they are superior. I was sent only as a
teacher.” He then sat down among them. Darimi transmitted it. 
*The text has al-fiqh au al-'ilm, fiqh and ‘ilm having the same meaning, but the transmitter of the
tradition was not sure which word was used by the Prophet on this occasion.
Hadith - 243
Abu Darda’ told how God’s messenger, when asked how much a
man had to learn to become a faqih, replied, “ If anyone preserves for
my people forty traditions concerning their religion, God will raise him
up in the next world as a faqih, and I shall be an intercessor and witness
for him on the day of resurrection.”
Hadith - 244
Anas b. Malik said that God’s messenger asked, “Do you know
who is most generous?" On receiving the reply that God and His
messenger knew best, he said, “God is the most generous, then I am the
most generous of mankind, and the most generous of them after me will
be a man who acquires knowledge and spreads it. On the day of resurrection he will come as a prince alone.” Or he said, “As one people."
Hadith - 245
He also reported the Prophet as saying, “Two greedy ones never
attain satisfaction: he who is greedy for knowledge can never get
enough of it, and he who is greedy for worldly goods can never get
enough of them." Baihaqi transmitted the three traditions in Shu'ab
al-iman, and quoted the imam Ahmad as saying about Abu Darda''s
tradition, “This is a well-known text among the people, but it does not
have a sound isnad."
Hadith - 246
‘Aun reported Ibn Mas'ud as saying, “Two greedy ones never
attain satisfaction, the learned man and the worldly man, but they are
not equal. The learned man becomes more pleasing to the Compassionate One, but the worldly man perseveres in transgression." Then
‘Abdallah  recited, “Nay, but man transgresses in considering that he
is self-sufficient. "* He added, “The other is preferable, for ‘only those
of His servants who are learned fear God.’ "  Darimi transmitted it. 
*Qur’an, xcvi, 6 f.
Hadith - 247
Ibn ‘Abbas reported God’s messenger as saying, “Some among
my people will become learned in religion, will recite the Qur’an, and
say that they will go to princes and get some of their worldly goods,
but withdraw from them with their religion. That cannot be; for, as
what is gathered from tragacanth trees consists only of thorns, so what
is gathered from drawing near to them consists only of . . . ” Muhammad
b. as-Sabbah said that he obviously meant “sins." Ibn Majah transmitted it.
Hadith - 248
‘Abdallah b. Mas'ud said: If the learned were to guard learning
and entrust it to those who are worthy of it, they would thereby, rule
their contemporaries. But they have bestowed it on worldly people to
get thereby some of their worldly goods, and have been despised by
them. I heard your Prophet say, "If anyone makes the care of his
eternal welfare the sum total of his cares God will protect him from
worldly care, but if he has a variety of cares consisting of matters related to this world God will not be concerned in which of its wadis he
perishes.” Ibn Majah transmitted it, and Baihaqi transmitted it in
Shu'ab al-iman from Ibn ‘Umar beginning with "If anyone makes the
care.”
Hadith - 249
Al-A‘mash reported God’s messenger as saying, "The calamity
which affects knowledge is forgetfulness, and wasting it is to convey it to
those who are unworthy of it.” Darimi transmitted it in mursal form.
Hadith - 250
Sufyan said that ‘Umar b. al-Khattab asked Ka‘b who were the lords
of knowledge, and he replied that they are those who act according to
what they know. He then asked what it is that takes knowledge from
the hearts of the learned and was told that it is covetousness. Darimi
transmitted it.
Hadith - 251
Al-Ahwas b. Hakim told on his father’s authority that a man asked
the Prophet about evil, and he replied, "Do not ask me about evil, but
ask me about good,” saying it three times. Then he said, "The worst
evil consists in learned men who are evil, and the best good consists in
learned men who are good.” Darimi transmitted it.
Hadith - 252
Abu Darda’ said that the one who would have the worst position in
God’s sight on the day of resurrection would be a learned man who did
not profit from his learning.” Darimi transmitted it.
Hadith - 253
Ziyad b. Hudair said that ‘Umar asked him whether he knew what
demolishes Islam, and that when he replied that he did not, he said,
"The slip of a learned man, the disputation of a hypocrite about the
Book, and the rule of imams who lead men astray.” Darimi transmitted
it.
Hadith - 254
Al-Hasan said that knowledge is of two kinds: knowledge in the
heart, which is the beneficial type; and knowledge on the tongue, which
is God’s allegation against a human being.” Darimi transmitted it.
Hadith - 255
Abu Huraira said, "I have kept in my memory two large quantities*
of learning from God’s messenger, one of which I have disclosed among
you; but were I to disclose the other, this bul'um, meaning the food
tract, would be cut". Bukhari transmitted it.
*Lit. receptacles, or vessels.
Hadith - 256
‘Abdallah  said: If any of you people knows anything he should
make it known, but if anyone does not know he should say that God
knows best, for saying this when one does not know is a part of knowledge. God said to His prophet, “Say, I do not ask you for any reward
for it, and I am not a pretender.”* (Bukhari and Muslim.)
*Qur’an, xxxviii, 86.
Hadith - 257
Ibn Sirin said, “This knowledge is a religion, so consider from whom
you receive your religion.” Muslim transmitted it.
Hadith - 258
Hudhaifa said, “ If you Qur'an readers follow a straight course you
will have attained great precedence; but if you go right and left you will
have fallen into vast error.” Bukhari transmitted it.
Hadith - 259
Abu Huraira reported God’s messenger as saying, “Seek refuge in
God from the pit of sorrow.” On being asked what the pit of sorrow was,
he replied, “ It is a wadi in jahannam from which jahannam seeks refuge four hundred times every day.” When God’s messenger was asked
who would enter it, he replied, “The Qur’an readers who are ostentatious in what they do.” Tirmidhi transmitted it, and Ibn Majah has the
same, adding in it, “Among the Qur’an readers who are most hateful to
God are those who visit princes.” Al-Muharibi said that he meant
tyrants.
Hadith - 260
‘Ali reported God’s messenger as saying, “ A time is soon coming to
mankind when nothing of Islam but its name will remain and only the
written form of the Qur’an will remain. Their mosques will be in fine
condition but will be devoid of guidance, their learned men will be the
worst people under heaven, corruption coming forth from them and
returning among them.” Baihaqi transmitted it in Shu'ab al-iman.
Hadith - 261
Ziyad b. Labid said: The Prophet mentioned a matter, saying,
“That will be at the time when knowledge departs.” I asked, “How can
knowledge depart when we recite the Qur’an and teach it to our children
and they will teach it to their children up till the day of resurrection?”
He replied, “ I am astonished at you,* Ziyad. I thought you were the
most learned man in Medina. Do not these Jews and Christians read the
Torah and the Injil without knowing a thing about their contents?”
Ahmad and Ibn Majah transmitted it, Tirmidhi transmitted something
similar from him, as did Darimi from Abu Umama.
Hadith - 262
Ibn Mas'ud reported that God's messenger said to him, "Acquire
knowledge and teach it to the people, learn the obligatory duties and
teach them to the people, learn the Qur’an and teach it to the people;
for I am a man who will be taken away, knowledge will be taken away,
dissensions will appear, so that two men will disagree about an obligatory duty and find no one to decide between them.” Darimi and
Daraqutni transmitted it.
Hadith - 263
Abu Huraira reported God’s messenger as saying, "Knowledge from which no benefit is derived is like a treasure from which nothing is expended in God’s path.” Darimi transmitted it.
