Hadith - 4320
Abu Huraira reported God’s messenger as saying: “God has not sent down a disease without sending down remedy for it.” 
Bukhari transmitted it.
Hadith - 4321
Jabir reported God's messenger as saying: “There is a medicine for every disease, and when the medicine is applied to the disease it is cured by God’s permission.” 
Muslim transmitted it.
Hadith - 4322
Ibn ‘Abbas reported God’s messenger as saying: “There is a remedy in three things: the incision of a cupping-glass, a drink of honey, or cauterization by fire, but I forbid my people to cauterize.” 
Bukhari transmitted.it.
Hadith - 4323
Jabir told that at the battle of the Confederates* Ubayy was struck by an arrow in the median vein of the arm and God’s messenger cauterized it. 
Muslim transmitted it.
* i.e. the battle of the Trench, 5 A. H.
Hadith - 4324
He told that when Sa'id b. Mu'adh was shot in the median vein of his arm the Prophet with his own hand cauterized it with a broad arrow head. Afterwards it swelled up and he cauterized it a second time. 
Muslim transmitted it.
Hadith - 4325
He told that God’s messenger sent to Ubayy b. Ka'b a physician who cut a vein of his and cauterized it.
Muslim transmitted it.
Hadith - 4326
Aba Huraira told of hearing God’s messenger say: “Nigella seed is a remedy for every disease but sam.” 
Ibn Shihab said sant is death and the nigella seed is shuniz.* 
(Bukhari and Muslim.)
* Taj al-’arus says this is a Persian word which came to be used by Arabs. It indicates a seed of a species of nigella.
Hadith - 4327
Abu Sa'id al-Khudri said that a man came to the Prophet and told him his brother's bowels were loose, so God’s messenger told him to give him honey to drink . He did so and then came and said, “I gave it him to drink but it has only made his bowels more loose.” This he said three times, and when he came a fourth time and was told to give him honey to drink he said, “I have done so, but it has only increased the looseness.” God's messenger replied, “God has spoken the truth and your brother’s bowels have lied.” He then gave him it to drink and he recovered.
 (Bukhari and Muslim.)
Hadith - 4328
Anas reported God's messenger as saying, "The best medical treatments you apply are cupping and sea costus.” 
(Bukhari and Muslim.)
Hadith - 4329
He reported God’s messenger as saying: “Do not afflict your children by squeezing for a swelling in the uvula, but apply costus.” 
(Bukhari and Muslim .)
Hadith - 4330
Umm Qais reported God's messenger as saying: “Why do you compress the uvula in this way? Use this Indian aloes wood, for it contains seven types of remedy, among them being a remedy for pleurisy. It is applied through the nose for a swelling of the uvula and poured into the side of the mouth for pleurisy.” 
(Bukhari and Muslim )
Hadith - 4331
‘A’isha and Raf’i b. Khadij reported the Prophet as saying: “Fever is due to the vehemence of the heat of hell, so cool it with water.” 
(Bukhari and Muslim.).
Hadith - 4332
Anas said God’s messenger gave permission to use a spell for the evil eye, scorpion sting and small pustules. 
Muslim transmitted it.
Hadith - 4333
'Aisha said : The Prophet gave command that we should use a spell against the evil eye. 
(Bukhari and Muslim.)
Hadith - 4334
Umm Salama told that the Prophet saw in her house a girl with saf’a, i.e. yellowness,* in her face and said: “Use a spell for her, for she has been affected by the evil eye.” 
(Bukhari and Muslim.)
* Saf’a is explained as a stroke from the devil, or the influence of the evil eye. It may be read suf’a which means blackness, or blackness tinged with red. Sufra normally means yellowness, but it can also mean blackness, and that may be the interpretation it should have here, in which case one should read suf'a.
Hadith - 4335
Jabir told that God’s messenger prohibited spells, and the family of ‘Amr b. Hazm came and said, “Messenger of God, we had a spell proved efficacious which we applied for scorpion bite, but you have prohibited spells.” They submitted it to him and he said, “I see no harm in it. If any of you is able to benefit his brother, let him do so.” 
Muslim transmitted it.
Hadith - 4336
‘Auf b. Malik al-Ashja‘i said: In the pre-Islamic period we used to apply spells, and we asked God’s messenger how he looked upon that. He replied, “Submit your spells to me. There is no harm in spells so long as they involve no polytheism.” 
Muslim transmitted it.
Hadith - 4337
Ibn ‘Abbas reported the Prophet as saying: “The evil eye is genuine If anything could get ahead of the decree the evil eye would do so. And when you are asked to bathe do so.”*
Muslim transmitted it.
* An indication of the practice here intended will be found in the tradition of Abu Umama near the end of Section II of this chapter.
Hadith - 4338
Usama b. Sharik told that when God’s messenger was asked whether they should make use of medical treatment he replied, “Yes servants of God, make use of medical treatment, for God has not made a disease without appointing a remedy for it, with the exception of one disease; viz., old age.” 
Ahmad, Tirmidhi and Abu Dawud transmitted it.
Hadith - 4339
‘Uqba b. ‘Amir reported God’s messenger as saying: “Do not force your invalids to eat, for God most high gives them food and drink.”
Tirmidhi and Ibn Majah transmitted it, Tirmidhi saying this is a gharib tradition.
Hadith - 4340
Anas told that the Prophet cauterized As'ad b. Zurara because of a redness from which he suffered. 
Tirmidhi transmitted it, saying this is a gharib tradition.
Hadith - 4341
Zaid b. Arqam told that God’s messenger ordered them to treat pleurisy with sea costus and olive oil. 
Tirmidhi transmitted it.
Hadith - 4342
He told that the Prophet used to recommend olive oil and wars for pleurisy. 
Tirmidhi transmitted it.
Hadith - 4343
Asma’ daughter of ‘Umais told that the Prophet asked her what laxative she used and she replied that she used spurge, whereupon he declared that it was very hot. She then used senna as a purgative, and. the Prophet said: “If anything contained a remedy for death it would be senna.” 
Tirmidhi and Ibn Majah transmitted it, Tirmidhi saying this is a hasan gharlb tradition.
Hadith - 4344
Abud Darda’ reported God's messenger as saying, “God has sent down both the disease and the cure, and He has appointed a cure for every disease, so treat yourselves medically, but use nothing unlawful.” 
Abu Dawud transmitted it.
Hadith - 4345
Abu Huraira told that God’s messenger prohibited unclean medicine. 
Ahmad, Abu Dawud, Tirmidhi and Ibn Majah transmitted it.
Hadith - 4346
Salma, the Prophet’s woman-servant, told that no one complained to God’s messenger of a headache without his telling him to get cupped, or of a pain in his legs without his telling him to dye them with henna. 
Abu Dawud transmitted it.
Hadith - 4347
She said that God’s messenger never had a wound or a bleeding foot* without ordering her to put henna on it. 
Tirmidhi transmitted it.
* Nakba is used. It means an injury to the foot caused by a stone which produce bleeding.
Hadith - 4348
Abu Kabsha al-Anmari told that God’s messenger used to have himself cupped on the top of his head and between his shoulders and that he used to say: “If anyone pours out any of this blood he will not suffer if he applies no medical treatment for anything.” 
Abu Dawud and Ibn Majah transmitted it.
Hadith - 4349
Jabir told that the Prophet had himself cupped above the thigh for a contusion from which he suffered. 
Abu Dawud transmitted it.
Hadith - 4350
Ibn Mas'ud said: In telling about the night when he was taken up to heaven God’s messenger said that he did not pass a company of angels without their ordering him to command his people to have themselves cupped. 
Tirmidhi and Ibn Majah transmitted it, Tirmidhi saying that this is a hasan gharlb tradition.
Hadith - 4351
‘Abd ar-Rahman b. ‘Uthman told that when a physician consulted the Prophet about putting frogs in medicine he forbade him to kill them.* 
Abu Dawud transmitted it.
* The flesh of frogs mixed with olive oil was used as an antidote for snake bite, and the fat was considered helpful for extracting teeth. The prohibition of killing frogs most probably applies only to killing them for medicinal purposes.
Hadith - 4352
Anas said that God's messenger used to have himself cupped in the two veins at the sides of the neck and on the shoulder. 
Abu Dawud transmitted it, and Tirmidhi and Ibn Majah added that he used to have himself cupped on the 17th, 19th, and 21st.
Hadith - 4353
Ibn ‘Abbas said the Prophet liked to have himself cupped on the 17th, 19th, and 21st. 
Baghawi transmitted it in Sharh as-sunna.
Hadith - 4354
Abu Huraira reported God’s messenger as saying, “If anyone has himself cupped on the 17th, 19th, and 21st, it will be a remedy for every disease.” 
Abu Dawud transmitted it.
Hadith - 4355
Kabsha daughter of Abu Bakra told that her father used to forbid his family to have themselves cupped on a Tuesday, and used to assert on the authority of God’s messenger that Tuesday is the day of blood in which there is an hour when it does not stop. 
Abu Dawud transmitted it.
Hadith - 4356
Zuhri reported in mursal form that the Prophet said: “If anyone has himself cupped on a Wednesday or a Saturday and is smitten by leprosy, he must blame no one but himself .” 
Ahmad and Abu Dawud transmitted it. 
It has been given an isnad, but Abu Dawud said that that is not sound;
Hadith - 4357
He reported in mursal form that God’s messenger said: “If anyone has himself cupped or smeared with something on a Saturday or a Wednesday, he must blame no one but himself if he gets leprosy.” 
It is transmitted in Sharh as-sunna.
Hadith - 4358
Zainab the wife of ‘Abdallah b. Mas'ud told that ‘Abdallah saw a thread on her neck and asked what it was. When she told him that it was a thread over which a spell had been recited for her he took it, cut it up and said, “You, family of ‘Abdallah, are independent of polytheism. I have heard God’s messenger say that spells, charms and love-spells are polytheism.” 
She replied, “Why do you speak like this? My eye was discharging and I kept going to so and so, the Jew, and when he applied a spell to it it calmed down.” 
‘Abdallah said, “That was just the work of the devil who was pricking it with his hand, and when a spell was uttered he desisted. All you need to do is to say as God’s messenger did, ‘Remove the harm, O Lord of men, and heal. Thou art the Healer. There is no remedy but Thine which leaves no disease behind.” 
Abu Dawud transmitted it.
Hadith - 4359
Jabir told that when the Prophet was asked about a charm for one who is possessed (nushra)* he replied, 
“It pertains to the work of the devil.” 
Abu Dawud transmitted it.
* Nushra comes from a root meaning to disperse and is said to be used meaning a charm for one who is possessed because it disperses the trouble.
Hadith - 4360
‘Abdallah b. ‘Umar told that he heard God’s messenger say: “If I drink an antidote, or tie on an amulet, or compose poetry, I am the type who does not care what he does.”*
Abu Dawud transmitted it.
* Meaning that one who does any such thing is an abandoned character.
Hadith - 4361
Al-Mughira b. Shu'ba reported the Prophet as saying: “He who has himself cauterized or uses a spell has exempted himself from trust in God.” 
Ahmad, Tirmidhi and Ibn Majah transmitted it.
Hadith - 4362
‘Isa b. Hamza told that he went to visit ‘Abdallah b. ‘Ukaim* who was suffering from erysipelas and asked why he did not attach an amulet. He replied, “We seek refuge in God from that. God’s messenger said that if anyone hangs anything on himself he will be left to it.”**
Abu Dawud transmitted it.
* Mirqat, iv, 510 wrongly gives Hukaim. Cf. Tahdhib, v, 323 f.
** If anyone puts his trust in a charm instead of seeking God’s help His help will be withheld from him.
Hadith - 4363
‘Imran b. Husain reported God’s messenger as saying: “No spell is to be used except for the evil eye or a scorpion sting.” 
Ahmad, Tirmidhi and Abu Dawud transmitted it, and Ibn Majah transmitted it on the authority of Buraida.
Hadith - 4364
Anas reported God’s messenger as saying: “No spell is to be used except for the evil eye, or a scorpion sting, or bleeding.”*
Abu Dawud transmitted it.
* The text has dam (blood), but it is said that nose-bleeding in particular is what is meant here. Cf. Mirqat, iv, 5U.
Hadith - 4365
Asma’ daughter of ‘Umais said, “Messenger of Go'd, Ja’far’s children are readily susceptible to the influence of the evil eye, so may I use a spell for them?” He replied, “Yes, for if anything could get ahead of the decree the evil eye could.” 
Ahmad, Tirmidhi and Ibn Majah transmitted it.
Hadith - 4366
Ash-Shifa’ daughter of ‘Abdallah told that when she was with Hafsa God’s messenger entered and said: “Why do you not teach this one the spell for skin eruptions as you taught her writing?” 
Abu Dawud transmitted it.
Hadith - 4367
Abu Umama b. Sahl b. Hunaif told that ‘Amir b. Rabi'a saw Sahl b. Hunaif bathing and said, “I swear by God that I have seen no skin to compare with what I have seen to-day, not even that of a secluded girl.” 
Sahl fell to the ground and people went to God’s messenger and said to him, “Messenger of God, can you do anything for Sahl b. Hunaif? We swear by God that he cannot raise his head ” 
He asked if they suspected anyone, and when they replied that they suspected ‘Amir b. Rabl‘a.
God’s messenger summoned ‘Amir, and speaking roughly to him, said, “Why does one of you kill his brother? Why did you not invoke a blessing? Bathe on his behalf ” 
‘Amir then washed on his behalf his face, hands, elbows, knees and toes, and inside his lower garment, collected the water in a vessel and poured it over him, so he recovered and went away with the people none the worse.*
It is transmitted in Sharh as-sunna. 
Malik transmitted it, and in his version he said, “The evil eye is real. Perform ablution for him.” He therefore did so.
* The trouble was due to the words of praise which were not qualified by any reference to what God might will, and accordingly attributed to the evil eye.
Hadith - 4368
Abu Sa'id al-Khudri told that God’s messenger used to seek refuge in God from jinn and the evil eye in men till the Mu’awwidhatan* came down, after which he made use of them and abandoned everything else. 
Tirmidhi and Ibn Majah transmitted it, Tirmidhi saying this is a hasan gharib tradition.
* Qur’an, 113 & 114.
Hadith - 4369
‘A'isha told that God’s messenger asked her, “Have the mugharribun been seen among you?”
She asked what that meant and he replied, “They are those in whom is a strain of the jinn.”* 
Abu Dawud transmitted it.
* Mirqat, iv, 514, says this happens if a man neglects to mention God when he has sexual intercourse with his wife.
Hadith - 4370
Abu Huraira reported God’s messenger as saying: “The stomach is the tank of the body and the veins go down to it. When the stomach is healthy the veins come back in a healthy condition, but when it is in a bad condition they return diseased.”
Hadith - 4371
‘Ali said: When God’s messenger was praying one night he placed his hand on the ground and was stung by a scorpion, so he struck it with his sandal and killed it. Then when he departed he said:
“God curse the scorpion! It does not leave alone one who is praying or anyone else, or a prophet or anyone else.” 
He then called for salt and water, and putting it in a vessel he began to pour it over his finger where it had stung him and wipe it, seeking refuge in God by reciting the Mu’awwidhatan. 
Baihaqi transmitted the two traditions in Shu’ab al-iman.
Hadith - 4372
‘Uthman b. ‘Abdallah b. Mauhib said: My people sent me to Umm Salama with a bowl of water. Whenever anyone was smitten by the evil eye or anything else he sent her a basin, and she took out some hairs of God’s messenger which she kept in a little silver bell.* She moved it about for him in the water and he drank some of it. I looked into the little bell and saw some red hairs. 
Bukhari transmitted it.
* Mirqat, iv, 515, says that although the word means a bell, it may here be used of a small box in the shape of a bell. This is the kind of bell that would be used on a tambourine.
Hadith - 4373
Abu Huraira told that when some of the companions of God's messenger remarked to him that truffles are the smallpox of the earth he replied: “Truffles are a kind of manna, and their juice is a remedy for the evil eye. The 'ajwa dates come from paradise, and they are a remedy for poison.” 
Abu Huraira said that he took three, five, or seven truffles, pressed them, put their juice in a bottle and applied it as an eye-lotion to a slavegirl of his who was blear-eyed, and she recovered. 
Tirmidhi transmitted it, saying this is a hasan tradition.
Hadith - 4374
He reported God’s messenger as saying: “If anyone licks honey three mornings every month, he will not be afflicted with any serious trouble.”
Hadith - 4375
'Abdallah b. Mas'ud reported God’s messenger as saying: “Make use of the two remedies: honey and the Qur’an.” 
Ibn Majah and Baihaqi, in Shu'ab al-lman, transmitted the two traditions, Baihaqi saying the correct view is that the second goes no farther back than Ibn Mas'ud.
Hadith - 4376
Abu Kabsha al-Anmari told that God’s messenger had himself cupped on the top of his head because of the poisoned sheep.* Ma'mar said: I had myself cupped like that in the middle of my head for a reason other than poison and suffered some loss of memory till I was recommended to use Fatihat al-Kitab in the prayer. 
Razin transmitted it.
* An attempt was made to poison the Prophet after the conquest of Khaibar in 7 A.H., but when he had taken a mouthful of the poisoned meat he spat it out realizing that it was poisoned.
Hadith - 4377
Nafi' said Ibn ‘Umar told him he was suffering from blood pressure and asked him to bring him a cupper, telling him to be sure to bring a young man and see that he brought neither an old man nor a boy. And Ibn ‘Umar said he had heard God’s messenger say: “Cupping before food is best; it increases the intelligence, increases the memory and increases the memory of one who has a good memory. He who has himself cupped should choose Thursday, doing it in the name of God most high; but avoid cupping on Friday, Saturday and Sunday. Get yourselves cupped on Monday and Tuesday, but avoid cupping on Wednesday for it is the day when Job was smitten with affliction. Tubercular leprosy and leprosy make their appearance only on Wednesday or Tuesday night.” 
Ibn Majah transmitted it.
Hadith - 4378
Ma'qil b. Yasar reported God’s messenger as saying: “Cupping on Tuesday the 17th of the month is a cure for a year’s illness.” 
Harb b. Isma'il al-Kirmani, Ahmad’s companion, transmitted it, but his isnad is worthless. Thus it is stated in al-Muntaqa. 
Razin transmitted something to the same effect on the authority of Abu Huraira.
Hadith - 4379
Abu Huraira told of hearing God's messenger say, “There should be no taking of omens, but the best type is the good omen." 
He was asked what a good omen was and replied, “A good word which one of you hears." 
(Bukhari and Muslim.)
Hadith - 4380
He reported God's messenger as saying, “There is no infection, no evil omen, no hama*, and no serpent in a hungry belly*; but flee from one who has tubercular leprosy as you would from a lion." 
Bukhari transmitted it.
* The word means an owl, or a night-bird which frequents graves. The pre-Islamic Arabs believed that when vengeance had not been taken for one who had been killed a bird called hama came forth from the dead and screeched demanding vengeance.
** The word is safar. The pre-Islaraic Arabs used the word as meaning a serpent which bites a man from within when he is hungry and causes the sense of stinging a man feels when hungry. It was also used of a serpent within the belly which was believed to cause a disease more contagious than mange or scab.
Hadith - 4381
He reported God's messenger as saying, “There is no infection, no hama, and no serpent in a hungry belly." 
A nomadic Arab asked, “Messenger of God, how is it that when camels are in the sand as if they were gazelles* and a mangy camel comes among them it gives them mange?" 
God’s messenger replied, “Who infected the first one?" 
Bukhari transmitted it.
* The comparison is used to indicate the clearness of their skin.
Hadith - 4382
He reported God’s messenger as saying: “There is no infection, no hama, no star promising rain, and no serpent in a hungry belly." 
Muslim transmitted it.
Hadith - 4383
Jabir told that he heard the Prophet say: “There is no infection, no serpent in a hungry belly, and no ghoul.”* 
Muslim transmitted it.
* I have used the English word derived from the Arabic ghul. It was used of a creature which was a type of jinni or devil which was believed to appear to people in various forms and lead them astray in the desert and cause their destruction.
Hadith - 4384
‘Amr b. ash-Sharid told on his father’s authority that there was a man with tubercular leprosy in the deputation of Thaqif and the Prophet sent to him a message: "We have taken your oath of allegiance, so go home." 
Muslim transmitted it.
Hadith - 4385
Ibn ‘Abbas told that God’s messenger took good omens but not evil ones, and that he liked a pleasing name. 
It is transmitted in Sharh as-sunna.
Hadith - 4386
Qatan b. Qabisa told on his father’s authority that the Prophet said: "Augury from the flight of birds, the practice of pessomancy,* and taking evil omens pertain to divination."**
Abu Dawud transmitted it.
* Tarq. It is used of the practice of divinantion in which women threw stones. It is also used of geomancy by drawing lines.
** Min al-jibt. Jibt means devil and also divination. An alternative translation would be that these practices come from the devil.
Hadith - 4387
‘Abdallah b. Mas'ud reported God’s messenger as saying: "Taking evil omens is polytheism (saying it three times). None of us fails to be affected by it, but God removes such influence by trust in Him." 
Abu Dawud and Tirmidhi transmitted it. 
Tirmidhi told that he heard Muhammad b. Isma'il* say that Sulaiman b. Harb used to say about this tradition that in his opinion "None of us fails to be affected by it, but God removes such influence by trust in Him" are Ibn Mas'ud’s words.
* i.e. Bukhari.
Hadith - 4388
Jabir told that God’s messenger took a man who was suffering from tubercular leprosy by the hand, and putting it along with his own in the dish said: "Eat with confidence in God and trust in Him." 
Ibn Majah transmitted it.
Hadith - 4389
Sa'd b. Malik reported God’s messenger as saying: "There is no hama, no infection and no evil omen; but if anything is affected by an evil omen it is a house, a horse, and a woman." 
Abu Dawud transmitted it.
Hadith - 4390
Anas told that when the Prophet went out to attend to some business he was delighted to hear someone say, “O rightly guided one! O successful one!” 
Tirmidhi transmitted it.
Hadith - 4391
Buraida told that the Prophet did not take omens from anything; but when he sent out an agent he asked about his name and if it pleased him he was glad about it and his cheerfulness on that account was visible in his face, but if he disliked his name his displeasure on that account was visible in his face. 
When he entered a village he asked about its name and if it pleased him he was glad about it and his cheerfulness on that account was visible in his face, but if he disliked its name his displeasure on that account was visible in his face. 
Abu Dawud transmitted it.
Hadith - 4392
Anas told that a man said, “Messenger of God, we were in an abode in which our numbers and our goods were many and changed to an abode in which our numbers and our goods have become few.” 
He replied, “Leave it, for it is reprehensible.” 
Abu Dawud transmitted it.
Hadith - 4393
Yahya b. ‘Abdallah b. Bahir said he was informed by one who had heard Farwa b. Musaik tell that he said, “Messenger of God, we have land called Abyan* which is the land where we have our fields and grow our crops, but it is very unhealthy.” 
He replied, “Leave it, for destruction comes from being near disease.” 
Abu Dawud transmitted it.
* To the east of Aden some early riders held it was either a place on the rocks of Adea, or a name of Aden itself.
Hadith - 4394
‘Urwa b. ‘Amir told that when taking omens was mentioned in the presence of God’s messenger he replied that the best type was the good omen, adding that a Muslim is not turned back from anything because of an omen. 
He told them that when any of them saw anything he disliked he should say, “O God, Thou alone bringest good things, Thou alone avertest evil things, and there is no might or power but in God.” 
Abu Dawud transmitted it in mursal form.
Hadith - 4395
Mu'awiya b. al-Hakam told that he said, “Messenger of God, there were things we used to do in the pre-Islamic period. We used to visit kahins.” He replied, “Do not visit kdhins” 
He said, “We used to take omens.” He replied, “That is an idea a man has, but it must not turn you aside from your purposes.” 
He said, “Among us there were men who practised divination by drawing lines on the ground.” He replied, “There was a prophet who drew lines, so if anyone does it in the same way as he did, that is allowable.” 
Muslim transmitted it.
Hadith - 4396
'A’isha told that when God’s messenger was asked by some people about kahins he replied, “They are of no account.” 
They said, “Messenger of God, they sometimes tell a thing which is true.” 
He replied, “That is a word pertaining to truth which a jinni snatches and cackles into the ear of his friend as a hen does; then they mix more than a hundred lies with it.” 
(Bukhari and Muslim.)
Hadith - 4397
She told that she heard God’s messenger say: “The angels descend in al-’anan, i e. the clouds, and mention a matter which has been decreed in heaven, then the devils listening by stealth and hearing it communicate it to the kahins who tell along with it a hundred lies of their own making.” 
Bukhari transmitted it.
Hadith - 4398
Hafsa reported God’s messenger as saying: “If anyone resorts to a diviner (arraf) and asks him about anything prayer will not be accepted from him for forty days.”*
Muslim transmitted it.
* Literally, Nights.
Hadith - 4399
Zaid b. Khalid al-Juhani said: God’s messenger led us in the morning prayer at al-Hudaibiya after rain which had fallen during the night, and when he finished he turned to the people and said, “Do you know what your Lord has said?” 
On their replying that God and His messsenger knew best he told them that He had said, “This morning there were among my servants one who believes in me and one who disbelieves. The one who said, ‘We have been given rain by God’s grace and mercy' is the one who believes in me and disbelieves in the star, but the one who said, ‘We have been given rain by such and such a rainy star’ is the one who disbelieves in me and believes in the star.” 
(Bukhari and Muslim.)
Hadith - 4400
Abu Huraira reported God’s messenger as saying, “God has not sent down any blessing from heaven without a section of the people disbelieving in it. God sends down the rain but they say it comes by means of such and such a star.” 
Muslim transmitted it.
Hadith - 4401
Ibn ‘Abbas reported God's messenger as saying: “If anyone acquires any knowledge of astrology he acquires a branch of magic of which he gets more as long as he continues to do so.” 
Ahmad, Abu Dawud and Ibn Majah transmitted it.
Hadith - 4402
Abu Huraira reported God’s messenger as saying: “If anyone resorts to a kahin and believes him m what he says, or has intercourse with his wife when she is menstruating, or has intercourse with his wife through her anus, he has nothing to do with what has been sent down to Muhammad.” 
Ahmad and Abu Dawud transmitted it.
Hadith - 4403
Abu Huraira reported the Prophet as saying: “When God decrees a matter in heaven the angels move their wings in submission to His word which is like a chain on a smooth stone. Then when their hearts are delivered from fear they say, ‘What did your Lord say?’ and receive the reply, ‘That which He said is the truth and He is the Most High and the Most Great.’ Then those who listen by stealth hear it, and they are thus, some above others (Sufyan* illustrating it with the palm of his hand, turning it and separating the fingers). Then one hears the word and passes it on to the one who is below him and the other passes it on to the one who is below him, and so on till one passes it on the tongue of the magician or the kahin. Often a flame catches him before he passes it on,** but often he passes it on before it catches him, and he tells a hundred lies along with it. People ask whether he did not say such and such on such and such a day, and he is believed because of that word which was heard from heaven." 
Bukhari transmitted it.
* i.e, Sufyan b. ‘Uyaina through whom the tradition was transmitted.
** Cf. Qur’an, 15: 18
Hadith - 4404
Ibn 'Abbas said: A man of the Ansar who was a companion of the Prophet told me that while they were sitting one night along with God’s messenger, a star was thrown and shone brightly. He asked them what they used to say in the pre-Islamic period when something of that nature was thrown, and they replied, “God and His messenger know best. We used to say that a great man had been born that night, or that a great man had died." 
Then God’s messenger said, “It is not thrown because of anyone’s death or life; but when our Lord whose name is blessed decrees a matter the bearers of the Throne extol Him, then the inhabitants of heaven who are next to them extol Him till the extolling reaches the inhabitants of this lowest heaven. Then those who are near the bearers of the Throne ask them what their Lord has said and they tell them what He said. Then the inhabitants of the heavens ask one another till it reaches this lowest heaven. The jinn then snatch a hearing and pass it on to their friends and have  thrown at them. Now what they bring as it came is true, but they mix things with it and make additions." 
Muslim transmitted it.
Hadith - 4405
Qatada said God most high created these stars for three purposes; He made them an adornment for the sky, missiles for the devils, and signs by which people find their way. 
If anyone explains them differently he makes a mistake, squanders what is allotted to him, and occupies himself with something he does not know. 
Bukhari transmitted it without a full isnad. 
Razln’s version has, “occupies himself with what does not concern him, what he has no knowledge of, and what prophets and angels are incapable of knowing.” 
On the authority of ar-Rabi’* there is something to the same effect with the addition, “I swear by God that God has not set in a star anyone’s life, provision, or death. They are only speaking lies against God and attributing causes to the stars.”
* Ar-Rabi’ b. Ziyad, Qatada's authority.
Hadith - 4406
Ibn ‘Abbas reported God’s messenger as saying: “If anyone acquires a section of the science of the stars for a purpose other than what God has mentioned he has acquired a branch of magic. The astrologer is a kahin, the kahin is a magician, and the magician is an infidel.” 
Razin transmitted it.
Hadith - 4407
Abu Sa'id reported God’s messenger as saying: “If God were to withhold rain from his servants for five years and then send it, a section of mankind would be infidels saying they had been supplied with water through the agency of the rainy star al-Mijdah*.”
Nasa’i transmitted it.
* The word comet from a root meaning to stir up, and the plural is used as a general name for stars which are said to stir up rain, the singular used here may refer to the Hyades, but other explanations are also given. As rainy seasons were connected with particular times at which certain stars rose, the rain was attributed to them.
