Hadith - 1
Ibn Umar reported: When the Muslims came to Medina, they gathered and sought to know the time of prayer, but no one summoned them.
One day they discussed the matter, and some of them said: "Use something like the bell of the Christians," and some of them said: "Use horn like that of the Jews." Umar said: "Why may not a man be appointed who should call (people) to prayer?" The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "O Bilal, get up and summon (the people) to prayer."
Hadith - 2
Anas reported: Bilal was commanded (by the Messenger of Allah) to repeat (the phrases of) Adhan twice and once in Iqama.
The narrator said: I made a mention of it before Ayyub, who said: Except for saying: "Qad-qamat-is-salat [the time for prayer has come]."
Hadith - 3
Anas bin Malik reported: They (the Companions) discussed that they should know the timings of prayer by means of something recognized by all.
Some of them said that fire should be lighted or a bell should be rung. But Bilal was ordered to repeat the phrases twice in Adhan, and once in Iqama.
Hadith - 4
This hadith is transmitted by Khalid Hadhdha with the same chain of transmitters (and the words are): "When the majority of the people discussed they should know," like the hadith narrated by al-Thaqafi (mentioned above) except for the words: "They (the people) should kindle fire."
Hadith - 5
Anas reported: Bilal was commanded (by the Holy Prophet) to repeat the phrases twice in Adhan, and once in Iqama.
Hadith - 6
Abu Mahdhura said that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) taught him Adhan like this: "Allah is the Greatest, Allah is the Greatest.
I testify that there is no god but Allah, I testify that there is no god but Allah. I testify that Muhammad is the Messenger of Allah, I testify that Muhammad is the Messenger of Allah, and it should be again repeated: I testify that there is no god but Allah, I testify that there is no god but Allah. I testify that Muhammad Is the Messenger of Allah, I testify that Muhammad is the Messenger of Allah.
Come to the prayer (twice). Come to success (twice)."
Ishaq added: "Allah is the Greatest, Allah is the Greatest; there is no god but Allah."
Hadith - 7
Ibn Umar reported: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) had two Mu'adhdhins, Bilal and 'Abdullah bin Umm Maktum, who (latter) was blind.
Hadith - 8
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of 'A'isha by another chain of transmitters.
Hadith - 9
A'isha reported: Ibn Umm Maktum used to pronounce Adhan at the behest of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) (despite the fact) that he was blind.
Hadith - 10
A hadith like this has been transmitted by Hisham.
Hadith - 11
Anas bin Malik reported: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to attack the enemy when it was dawn. He would listen to the Adhan; so if he heard an Adhan, he stopped, otherwise made an attack.
Once on hearing a man say: "Allah is the Greatest, Allah is the Greatest," the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) remarked: "He is following al-Fitra (al-Islam)."
Then hearing him say: "I testify that there is no god but Allah, there is no god but Allah," the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "You have come out of the Fire (of Hell)." They looked at him and found that he was a goat herd.
Hadith - 12
Abu Sa'id al-Khudri reported: When you hear the call (to prayer), repeat what the Mu'adhdhin pronounces.
Hadith - 13
Abdullah bin Amr bin al-As reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying: "When you hear the Mu'adhdhin, repeat what he says, then invoke a blessing on me, for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah
Then beg from Allah al-Wasila for me, which is a rank in Paradise fitting for only one of Allah's servants, and I hope that I may be that one."
If anyone who asks that I be given the Wasila, he will be assured of my intercession."
Hadith - 14
Umar bin al-Khattab reported: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'When the Mu'adhdhin says: "Allah is the Greatest, Allah is the Greatest," one of you should make this response: "Allah is the Greatest, Allah is the Greatest"
(And when the Mu'adhdhin) says: "I testify that there is no god but Allah," one should respond: "I testify that there is no god but Allah"
And when he says: "I testify that Muhammad is the Messenger of Allah," one should make a response: "I testify that Muhammad is Allah's Messenger."
When he (the Mu'adhdhin) says: "Come to prayer," one should make a response: "There is no might and no power except with Allah."
When he (the Mu'adhdhin) says: "Come to salvation," one should respond: "There is no might and no power except with Allah"
And when he (the Mu'adhdhin) says: "Allah is the Greatest, Allah is the Greatest," then make a response: "Allah is the Greatest, Allah is the Greatest."
When he (the Mu'adhdhin) says: "There is no god but Allah," he who makes a response from the heart: "There is no god but Allah," he will enter Paradise.'
Hadith - 15
Sa'd bin Abu Waqqas reported: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'If anyone says on hearing the Mu'adhdhin (what means): "I testify that there is no god but Allah alone, Who has no partner, and that Muhammad is His servant and His Messenger, (and that) I am satisfied with Allah as my Lord, with Muhammad as Messenger, and with Islam as deen (code of life)," his sins would be forgiven.'
In the narration transmitted by Ibn Rumh the words are: "He who said on hearing the Mu'adhdhin - 'and verily I testify.'" 'Qutaiba has not mentioned his words: "And I."
Hadith - 16
Yahya narrated it on the authority of his uncle that he had been sitting in the company of Mu'awiya bin Abu Sufyan when the Mu'adhdhin called (Muslims) to prayer.
Mu'awiya said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) saying: "The Mu'adhdhins will have the longest necks on the Day of Resurrection."
Hadith - 17
Abu Sufyan reported it on the authority of Jabir that he had heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: "When Satan hears the call to prayer, he runs away to a distance like that of Rauha."
Sulaiman said: "I asked him about Rauha." He replied: "It is at a distance of thirty-six miles from Medina."
Hadith - 18
Abu Mu'awiya narrated it on the authority of A'mash with the same chain of transmitters.
Hadith - 19
Abu Huraira reported the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying: "When Satan hears the call to prayer, he turns back and breaks the wind so as not to hear the call being made, but when the call is finished, he turns round and distracts (the minds of those who pray).
And when he hears the Iqama, he again runs away so as not to hear its voice, and when it subsides, he comes back and distracts (the minds of those who stand for prayer)."
Hadith - 20
Abu Huraira reported: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "When the Mu'adhdhin calls to prayer, Satan runs back vehemently."
Hadith - 21
Suhail reported that his father sent him to Banu Haritha along with a boy or a man. Someone called him by his name from an enclosure. He (the narrator) said: The person with me looked towards the enclosure, but saw nothing. I made a mention of that to my father.
He said: 'If I knew that you would meet such a situation I would have never sent you (there), but (bear in wind) whenever you hear such a call (from the evil spirits) pronounce the Adhan, for I have heard Abu Huraira say that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Whenever Adhan is proclaimed, Satan runs back vehemently."'
Hadith - 22
Abu Huraira reported: The Apostle (ﷺ) said: "When the call to prayer is made, Satan runs back and breaks wind so as not to hear the call being made, and when the call is finished, he turns round.
When Iqama is proclaimed he turns his back, and when it is finished he turns around to distract a man, saying: 'Remember such-and-such; remember such-and-such,' referring to something the man did not have in his mind, with the result that he does not know how much he has prayed."
Hadith - 23
A hadith like it has been narrated by Abu Huraira but for these words: "He (the man saying the prayer) does not know how much he has prayed."
Hadith - 24
Salim narrated it on the authority of his father who reported: I saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) raising his hands opposite the shoulders at the time of beginning the prayer, and before bowing down, and after coming back to the position after bowing, but he did not raise them between two prostrations.
Hadith - 25
Ibn Umar reported that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), when he stood up for prayer, used to raise his hands opposite the shoulders and then recited takbir (Allah-o-Akbar), and when he was about to bow, he again did like it, and when he raised himself from the ruku' (bowing posture) he again did like it, but he did not do it at the time of raising his head from prostration.
Hadith - 26
This hadith has been transmitted with the same chain of transmitters by az-Zuhri as narrated by Ibn Juraij (who) said: When the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) stood up for prayer, he raised hands (to the height) opposite the shoulders, and then recited takbir.
Hadith - 27
Abu Qilaba reported that he saw Malik bin Huwairith raising his hands at the beginning of prayer, and raising his hands before kneeling down, and raising his hands after lifting his head from the state of kneeling, and he narrated that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to do like this.
Hadith - 28
Malik bin Huwairith reported: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) raised his hands opposite his ears at the time of reciting the takbir (i.e. at the time of beginning the prayer) and then again raised his hands opposite the ears at the time of bowing, and when he lifted his head after bowing he said (what means): "Allah listened to him who praised Him," and did like it (raised his hands up to the ears).
Hadith - 29
This hadith has been transmitted by Qatada with the same chain of transmitters that he saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) doing this (i.e. raising his hands) till they were opposite the lobes of ears.
Hadith - 30
Abu Salama reported: Abu Huraira led prayer for them and recited takbir when he bent and raised himself (in ruku' and sujud) and after completing (the prayer) he said: By Allah, I say prayer which has the best resemblance with the prayer of the Prophet (ﷺ) amongst you.
Hadith - 31
Abu Huraira reported: When the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) got up for prayer, he would say the takbir (Allah-o-Akbar) when standing, then say the takbir when bowing, then say (what means): "Allah listened to him who praised him," when coming to the erect position after bowing, then say while standing: "To Thee, our Lord, be the praise", then recite the takbir when getting down for prostration, then say the takbir on raising his head, then say the takbir on prostrating himself, then say the takbir on raising his head.
He would do that throughout the whole prayer till he would complete it, and he would say the takbir when he would get up at the end of two rak'as after adopting the sitting posture.
Abu Huraira said: My prayer has the best resemblance amongst you with the prayer of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ).
Hadith - 32
Ibn al-Harith reported: He had heard Abu Huraira say: "The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) recited takbir on standing for prayer," and the rest of the hadith is like that transmitted by Ibn Juraij (recorded above), but he did not mention Abu Huraira as saying: "My prayer has the best resemblance amongst you with the prayer of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ)."
Hadith - 33
Abu Salama bin 'Abd al-Rahman reported: "When Marwan appointed Abu Huraira as his deputy in Medina, he recited takbir whenever he got up for obligatory prayer," and the rest of the hadith is the same as transmitted by Ibn Juraij (but with the addition of these words): "On completing the prayer with salutation, and he turned to the people in the mosque and said."
Hadith - 34
Abu Salama reported that Abu Huraira recited takbir in prayer on all occasions of rising and kneeling. We said: "O Abu Huraira, what is this takbir?" He said: "Verily, it is the prayer of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ)."
Hadith - 35
Suhail reported on the authority of his father that Abu Huraira used to recite takbir on all occasions of rising and bending (in prayer), and narrated that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to do like that.
Hadith - 36
Mutarrif reported: I and 'Imran bin Husain said prayer behind 'Ali bin Abu Talib. He recited takbir when he prostrated, and he recited takbir when he raised his head and he recited takbir while rising up (from the sitting position at the end of two rak'ahs).
When we had finished our prayer, 'Imran caught hold of my hand and said: "He (Hadrat Ali) has led prayer like Muhammad (ﷺ)" or he said: "He in fact recalled to my mind the prayer of Muhammad (may peace be upon him)."
Hadith - 37
Ubada bin as-Samit reported from the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ): "He who does not recite Fatiha of al-Kitab is not credited with having observed the prayer."
Hadith - 38
Ubada bin as-Samit reported: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "He who does not recite Umm al-Qur'an is not credited with having observed the prayer."
Hadith - 39
Mahmud bin al-Rabi', on whose face the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) squirted water from the well, reported on the authority of 'Ubada bin as-Samit that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "He who does not recite Umm al-Qur'an is not credited with having observed prayer."
Hadith - 40
This hadith has also been transmitted by Ma'mar from al-Zuhri with the same chain of transmitters with the addition of these words: "and something more."
Hadith - 41
Abu Huraira reported: The Apostle of Allah (ﷺ) said: "If anyone observes prayer in which he does not recite Umm al-Qur'an, it is deficient [he said this three times] and not complete."
It was said to Abu Huraira: 'At times we are behind the Imam.' He said: 'Recite it inwardly, for he had heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) declare that Allah the Exalted had said: "I have divided the prayer into two halves between Me and My servant, and My servant will receive what he asks.
When the servant says: 'Praise be to Allah, the Lord of the universe,' Allah the Most High says: 'My servant has praised Me.'
And when he (the servant) says: 'The Most Compassionate, the Merciful,' Allah the Most High says: 'My servant has lauded Me.'
And when he (the servant) says: 'Master of the Day of judgment,' He remarks: 'My servant has glorified Me,' and sometimes He would say: 'My servant entrusted (his affairs) to Me.'
And when he (the worshipper) says: 'Thee do we worship and of Thee do we ask help,' He (Allah) says: 'This is between Me and My servant, and My servant will receive what he asks for.'
Then, when he (the worshipper) says: 'Guide us to the straight path, the path of those to whom Thou hast been Gracious not of those who have incurred Thy displeasure, nor of those who have gone astray,' He (Allah) says: 'This is for My servant, and My servant will receive what he asks for.'"
Sufyan said: 'Ala bin 'Abd al-Rahman bin Ya'qub narrated it to me when I went to him and he was confined to his home on account of illness, and I asked him about it.
Hadith - 42
It is naratted on the authority of Abu Huraira that he had heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: "He who observed prayer but he did not recite the Umm al-Qur'an in it," and the rest of the hadith is the same as transmitted by Sufyan, and in this hadith the words are: 
"Allah the Most High said: 'The prayer is divided into two halves between Me and My servant. The half of it is for Me and the half of it is for My servant.'"
Hadith - 43
Abu Huraira reported: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "He who said his prayer, but did not recite the opening chapter of al-Kitab, his prayer is incomplete." He repeated it thrice.
Hadith - 44
Abu Huraira reported: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "One is not credited with having observed the prayer without the recitation (of al-Fatiha)."
So said Abu Huraira: (The prayer in which) the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) recited in a loud voice, we also recited that loudly for you (and the prayer in which) he recited inwardly we also recited inwardly for you (to give you a practical example of the prayer of the Holy Prophet).
Hadith - 45
Ata' narrated on the authority of Abu Huraira who said that one should recite (al-Fatiha) in every (rak'ah of) prayer.
What we heard (i.e. recitation) from the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), we made you listen to that. And that which he (recited) inwardly, we (recited) inwardly for you.
A person said to him: "If I add nothing to the (recitation) of the Umm al Qur'an (Surat al-Fatiha), would it make the prayer incomplete?"
Abu Huraira said: "If you add to that (if you recite some of verses of the Qur'an along with Surat al-Fatiha) that is better for you. But if you are contented with it (Surat al-Fatiha) only, it is sufficient for you."
Hadith - 46
Ata' reported it on the authority of Abu Huraira who said: Recitation (of Surat al-Fatiha) in every (rak'ah) of prayer in essential.
(The recitation) that we listened to from the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) we made you listen to it. And that which he recited inwardly to us, we recited it inwardly for you.
And he who recites Umm al-Qur'an, it is enough for him (to complete the prayer), and he who adds to it (recites some other verses of the Holy Qur'an along with Surat al-Fatiha), it is preferable for him.
Hadith - 47
Abu Huraira reported: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) entered the mosque, and a person also entered therein and offered prayer, and then came and paid salutation to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ).
The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) returned his salutation and said: "Go back and pray, for you have not offered the prayer."
He again prayed as he had prayed before, and came to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) and saluted him. The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) returned the salutation and said: "Go back and say prayer, for you have not offered the prayer."
This (act of repeating the prayer) was done three times. Upon this, the person said: "By Him Who hast sent you with Truth, whatever better I can do than this, please teach me."
He (the Holy Prophet) said: "When you get up to pray, recite takbir, and then recite whatever you conveniently can from the Qur'an, then bow down and remain quietly in that position, then raise yourself and stand erect; then prostrate yourself and remain quietly in that attitude; then raise yourself and sit quietly; and do that throughout all your prayers."
Hadith - 48
Abu Huraira reported: "A person entered the mosque and said prayer while the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) was sitting in a nook (of the mosque)," and the rest of the hadith is the same as mentioned above, but with this addition: "When you get up to pray, perform the ablution completely, and then turn towards the Qibla and recite takbir (Allah-o-Akbar - means Allah is the Most Great)."
Hadith - 49
Imran bin Husain reported: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) led us in Zuhr or 'Asr prayer (noon or the afternoon prayer). (On concluding it) he said: "Who recited behind me (the verses): 'Glorify the name of thy Lord, the Most High'?"
Thereupon, a person said: It was I, but I intended nothing but goodness.
"I felt that someone of you was disputing with me in it (or he was taking out from my tongue what I was reciting)," said the Prophet (ﷺ).
Hadith - 50
Imran bin Husain reported: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) observed the Zuhr prayer and a person recited "Glorify the name of thy Lord, the Most High" behind him.
When he (the Holy Prophet) concluded the prayer he said: "Who amongst you recited (the above-mentioned verse) or who amongst you was the reciter?" A person said: "It was I."
Upon this, he (the Holy Prophet) observed: "I thought as if someone amongst you was disputing with me (in what I was reciting)."
Hadith - 51
This hadith has been narrated by Qatada with the same chain of transmitters that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) observed Zuhr prayer and said: "I felt that someone amongst you was disputing with me (in what I was reciting)."
Hadith - 52
Anas reported: I observed prayer along with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) and with Abu Bakr, Umar and Uthman (may Allah be pleased with all of them), but I never heard any one of them reciting the Basmalah loudly.
Hadith - 53
Shu'ba reported it with the same chain of transmitters, with the addition of these words: 'I said to Qatada: "Did you hear it from Anas?" He replied in the affirmative and added: "We had inquired of him about it."'
Hadith - 54
Abda reported: 'Umar bin al-Khattab used to recite loudly these words: "Glory to Thee, O Allah, and Thine is the Praise, and Blessed is Thy Name, and Exalted is Thy Majesty, and there is no other object of worship beside Thee."
Qatada informed in writing that Anas bin Malik had narrated to him: I observed prayer behind the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) and Abu Bakr and Umar and 'Uthman. They started (loud recitation) with: "All Praise is due to Allah, the Lord of the worlds" and did not recite the Basmalah (loudly) at the beginning of the recitation or at the end of it.
Hadith - 55
It is reported on the authority of Abu Talha that he had heard Anas bin Malik narrating this.
Hadith - 56
Anas reported: One day the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) was sitting amongst us that he dozed off. He then raised his head smilingly. We said: "What makes you smile, Messenger of Allah?"
He said: "A Sura has just been revealed to me," and then recited: "In the name of Allah, the Compassionate, the Merciful. Verily We have given thee Kauthar (fount of abundance). Therefore turn to thy Lord for prayer and offer sacrifice, and surely thy enemy is cut off (from the good)."
Then he (the Holy Prophet) said: "Do you know what Kauthar is?" We said: "Allah and His Messenger know best."
The Prophet (ﷺ) said: It (Kauthar) is a canal which my Lord, the Exalted and Glorious has promised me, and there is an abundance of good in it. It is a cistern and my people would come to it on the Day of Resurrection, and tumblers there would be equal to the number of stars.
A servant would be turned away from (among the people gathered there). Upon this, I would say: 'My Lord, he is one of my people,' and He (the Lord) would say: 'You do not know that he innovated new things (in Islam) after you.'"
Ibn Hujr made this addition in the hadith: "He (the Holy Prophet) was sitting amongst us in the mosque, and He (Allah) said: '(You don't know) what he innovated after you.'"
Hadith - 57
Mukhtar bin Fulful reported that he had heard Anas bin Malik say that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) dozed off, and the rest of the hadith is the same as transmitted by Mus-hir except for the words that he (the Holy Prophet) said: "It (Kauthar) is a canal which my Lord the Exalted and the Glorious has promised me in Paradise.
There is a tank over it, but he made no mention of the tumblers like the number of the stars."
Hadith - 58
Wa'il bin Hujr reported: He saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) raising his hands at the time of beginning the prayer and reciting takbir, and according to Hammam (the narrator), the hands were lifted opposite to ears.
He (the Holy Prophet) then wrapped his hands in his cloth and placed his right hand over his left hand.
And when he was about to bow down, he brought out his hands from the cloth, and then lifted them, and then recited takbir and bowed down, and when (he came back to the erect position) he recited: "Allah listened to him who praised Him." And when he prostrated, he prostrated between his two palms.
Hadith - 59
Abdullah (bin Mas`ud) said: While observing prayer behind the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) we used to recite: "Peace be upon Allah, peace be upon so-and-so."
One day the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said to us: "Verily Allah is Himself Peace. When any one of you sits during the prayer, he should say: 'All services rendered by words, by acts of worship, and all good things are due to Allah.
Peace be upon you, O Prophet, and Allah's mercy and blessings. Peace be upon us and upon Allah's upright servants,' for when he says this it reaches every upright servant in the heavens and the earth.
(And say further): 'I testify that there is no god but Allah and I testify that Muhammad is His servant and Messenger. Then he may choose any supplication which pleases him and offer it.'"
Hadith - 60
Shu'ba has narrated this on the authority of Mansur with the same chain of transmitters, but he made no mention of this: "Then he may choose any supplication which pleases him."
Hadith - 61
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Mansur with the same chain of transmitters and he made a mention of this: "Then he may choose any supplication which pleases him or which he likes."
Hadith - 62
Abdullah bin Mas'ud reported: We were sitting with the Apostle (ﷺ) in prayer, and the rest of the hadith is the same as narrated by Mansur: He (also said): "After (reciting tashahud) he may choose any prayer."
Hadith - 63
Ibn Mas'ud is reported to have said: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) taught me tashahhud taking my hand within his palms, in the same way as he taught me a Sura of the Qur'an, and he narrated it as narrated above.
Hadith - 64
Ibn `Abbas reported: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to teach us tashahhud just as he used to teach us a Surah of the Qur'an, and he would say: "All services rendered by words, acts of worship, and all good things are due to Allah. Peace be upon you, O Prophet, and Allah's mercy and blessings.
Peace be upon us and upon Allah's upright servants. I testify that there is no god but Allah, and I testify that Muhammad is the Messenger of Allah."
In the narration of Ibn Rumh (the words are): "As he would teach us the Qur'an."
Hadith - 65
Tawus narrated it on the authority of Ibn 'Abbas that he said: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to teach us tashahhud as he would teach us a Sura of the Qur'an.
Hadith - 66
Hittan bin `Abdullah al-Raqashi reported: I observed prayer with Abu Musa al-Ash`ari and when he was in the qa`dah, one among the people said: "The prayer has been made obligatory along with piety and Zakat."
He (the narrator) said: When Abu Musa had finished the prayer after salutation he turned (towards the people) and said: "Who amongst you said such-and-such a thing?" A hush fell on the people.
He again said: "Who amongst you has said such-and-such a thing?" A hush fell on the people.
He (Abu Musa) said: "Hattan, it is perhaps you that have uttered it." He (Hattan) said: "No. I have not uttered it. I was afraid that you might be annoyed with me on account of this."
A person amongst the people said: "It was I who said it, and in this I intended nothing but good." Abu Musa said: "Don't you know what you have to recite in your prayers? Verily the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) addressed us and explained to us all its aspects and taught us how to observe prayer (properly).
He (the Holy Prophet) said: 'When you pray make your rows straight and let anyone amongst you act as your Imam.
Recite the takbir when he recites it and when he recites: "Not of those with whom Thou art angry, nor of those who go astray," say: "Amin." Allah would respond to you.
And when he (the Imam) recites the takbir, you may also recite the takbir, for the Imam bows before you and raises himself before you. Then the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "The one is equivalent to the other."
And when he says: "Allah listens to him who praises Him," you should say: "O Allah, our Lord, to Thee be the praise, for Allah, the Exalted and Glorious, has vouchsafed (us) through the tongue of His Apostle (ﷺ) that Allah listens to him who praises Him."
And when he (the Imam) recites the takbir and prostrates, you should also recite the takbir and prostrate, for the Imam prostrates before you and raises himself before you.  The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "The one is equivalent to the other."
And when he (the Imam) sits for Qa`da (for tashahhud) the first words of every one amongst you should be: "All services rendered by words, acts of worship and all good things are due to Allah. Peace be upon you, O Apostle, and Allah's mercy and blessings. Peace be upon us and upon the upright servants of Allah. I testify that there is no god but Allah, and I testify that Muhammad is His servant and His Messenger."'
Hadith - 67
Qatada has narrated a hadith like this with another chain of transmitters. In the hadith transmitted by Jarir on the authority of Sulaiman, Qatada's further words are: When (the Qur'an) is recited (in prayer), you should observe silence."
And (the following words are) not found in the hadith narrated by anyone except by Abu Kamil who heard it from Abu 'Awana (and the words are): 'Verily Allah vouchsafed through the tongue of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) this: "Allah listens to him who praises Him."'
Abu Ishaq (a student of Imam Muslim) said: Abu Bakr the son of Abu Nadr's sister has (critically) discussed this hadith. Imam Muslim said: Whom can you find a more authentic transmitter of hadith than Sulaiman?
Abu Bakr said to him (Imam Muslim): What about the hadith narrated by Abu Huraira, i.e. the hadith that when the Qur'an is recited (in prayer) observe silence?
He (Abu Bakr again) said: Then, why have you not included it (in your compilation)? He (Imam Muslim) said: I have not included in this every hadith which I deem authentic; I have recorded only such ahadith on which there is an agreement (amongst the Muhaddithin apart from their being authentic).
Hadith - 68
This hadith has been transmitted by Qatada with the same chain of transmitters (and the words are): Allah, the Exalted and the Glorious, commanded it through the tongue of His Apostle (may peace be upon him): "Allah listens to him who praises Him."
Hadith - 69
Abdullah bin Zaid - he who was shown the call (for prayer in a dream) - narrated it on the authority of Abu Mas'ud al-Ansari who said: We were sitting in the company of Sa'id bin 'Ubadah when the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) came to us.
Bashir bin Sa'd said: "Allah has commanded us to bless you. Messenger of Allah! But how should we bless you?"
He (the narrator) said: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) kept quiet (and we were so much perturbed over his silence) that we wished we had not asked him.
The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) then said: '(For blessing me) say: "O Allah, bless Muhammad and the members of his household as Thou didst bless the members of Ibrahim's household.
Grant favours to Muhammad and the members of his household as Thou didst grant favours to the members of the household of Ibrahim in the world. Thou art indeed Praiseworthy and Glorious"; and salutation as you know.'
Hadith - 70
Ibn Abi Laila reported: Ka'b bin 'Ujra met me and said: "Should I not offer you a present (and added): The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) came to us and we said: 'We have learnt how to invoke peace upon you; (kindly tell us) how we should bless you.'
He (the Holy Prophet) said: 'Say: "O Allah, bless Muhammad and his family as Thou didst bless the family of Ibrahim. Verily Thou art Praiseworthy and Glorious, O Allah."'
Hadith - 71
A hadith like this has been narrated by Mis'ar on the authority of al-Hakam, but in the hadith transmitted by Mis'ar these words are not found: "Should I not offer you a present?"
Hadith - 72
A hadith like this has been narrated by al-Hakam except that he said: "Bless Muhammad (ﷺ)" and he did not say: "O Allah."
Hadith - 73
Abu Humaid as-Sa'idi reported: They (the Companions of the Holy Prophet) said: 'Apostle of Allah, how should we bless you?'
He (the Holy Prophet) observed: 'Say: "O Allah! bless Muhammad, his wives and his offspring as Thou didst bless Ibrahim, and grant favours to Muhammad, and his wives and his offspring as Thou didst grant favours to the family of Ibrahim; Thou art Praiseworthy and Glorious."'
Hadith - 74
Abu Huraira reported: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "He who blesses me once, Allah would bless him ten times."
Hadith - 75
Abu Huraira reported: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'When the Imam says: "Allah listens to him who praises Him," you should say: "O Allah, our Lord for Thee is the praise," for if what anyone says synchronises with what the angels say, his past sins will be forgiven.'
Hadith - 76
A hadith like this is narrated by Abu Huraira by another chain of transmitters.
Hadith - 77
Abu Huraira reported: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Say Amin when the Imam says Amin, for it anyone's utterance of Amin synchronises with that of the angels, he will be forgiven his past sins."
Hadith - 78
Abu Huraira said: I heard from the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) the hadith like one transmitted by Malik, but he made no mention of the words of Shihab.
Hadith - 79
Abu Huraira reported: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "When anyone amongst you utters Amin in prayer and the angels in the sky also utter Amin, and this (utterance of the one) synchronises with (that of) the other, all his previous sins are pardoned."
Hadith - 80
Abu Hurairah reported: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "When anyone amongst you utters Amin and the angels In the heaven also utter Amin and (the Amin) of the one synchronises with (that of) the other, all his previous sins are pardoned."
Hadith - 81
A hadith like this is transmitted by Ma'mar from Hammam bin Munabbih on the authority of Abu Huraira who reported it from the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ).
Hadith - 82
Abu Huraira reported: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'When the reciter (Imam) utters: "Not of those on whom (is Thine) wrath and not the erring ones," and (the person) behind him utters Amin and his utterance synchronises with that of the dwellers of heavens, all his previous sins would be pardoned.'
Hadith - 83
Anas bin Malik reported: The Apostle of Allah (ﷺ) fell down from a horse and his right side was grazed. We went to him to inquire after his health when the time of prayer came.
He led us in prayer in a sitting posture and we said prayer behind him sitting, and when he finished the prayer, he said: 'The Imam is appointed only to be followed; so when he recites takbir, you should also recite that; when he prostrates, you should also prostrate; when he rises up, you should also rise up, and when he said "God listens to him who praises Him," you should say: "Our Lord, to Thee be the praise," and when he prays sitting, all of you should pray sitting.'
Hadith - 84
Anas bin Malik reported: "The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) fell down from a horse and he was grazed and he led the prayer for us sitting," and the rest of the hadith is the same.
Hadith - 85
Anas bin Malik reported: "The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) fell down from a horse and his right side was grazed," and the rest of the hadith is the same with the addition of these words: "When he (the Imam) says prayer standing, you should also do so."
Hadith - 86
Anas reported: "The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) rode a horse and fell down from it and his right side was grazed," and the rest of the hadith is the same, and (these words) are found in it: "When he (the Imam) says prayer in an erect posture, you should also say it in an erect posture."
Hadith - 87
Anas bin Malik reported: "The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) fell down from his horse and his right side was grazed," and the rest of the hadith is the same. In this hadith there are no additions (of words) as transmitted by Yunus and Malik.
Hadith - 88
A'isha reported: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) fell ill and some of his Companions came to inquire after his health. The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said prayer sitting, while (his Companions) said it (behind him) standing.
He (the Holy Prophet) directed them by his gesture to sit down, and they sat down (in prayer).
After finishing the (prayer) he (the Holy Prophet) said: "The Imam is appointed so that he should be followed, so bow down when he bows down, and rise up when he rises up and say (prayer) sitting when he (the Imam) says (it) sitting."
Hadith - 89
This hadith is narrated with the same chain of transmitters by Hisham bin 'Urwa.
Hadith - 90
Jabir reported: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) was ill and we said prayer behind him and he was sitting. And Abu Bakr was making audible to the people his takbir.
As he paid his attention towards us, he saw us standing and (directed us to sit down) with a gesture. So we sat down and said our prayer with his prayer in a sitting posture.
After uttering salutation he said: "You were at this time about to do an act like that of the Persians and the Romans. They stand before their kings while they sit, so don't do that; follow your Imams. If they say prayer standing, you should also do so, and if they say prayer sitting, you should also say prayer sitting."
Hadith - 91
Jabir said: "The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) led the prayer and Abu Bakr was behind him. When the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) recited the takbir, Abu Bakr also recited (it) in order to make it audible to us." And the rest of the hadith is like one transmitted by Laith.
Hadith - 92
Abu Huraira reported: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'The Imam is appointed so that he should be followed, so don't be at variance with him.
Recite takbir when he recites it; bow down when he bows down, and when he says: "Allah listens to him who praises Him," say: "O Allah, our Lord, to Thee be the Praise."
And when he (the Imam) prostrates, you should also prostrate, and when he says prayer sitting, you should all observe prayer sitting.'
Hadith - 93
A hadith like this has been transmitted by Hammam bin Munabbih from the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) on the authority of Abu Huraira.
Hadith - 94
Abu Huraira reported: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) while teaching us (the principles of faith), said: 'Do not try to go ahead of the Imam, recite takbir when he recites it, and when he says: "Nor of those who err" you should say "Amin," bow down when he bows down, and when he says: "Allah listens to him who praises Him" say: "O Allah, our Lord, to Thee be the praise."'
Hadith - 95
Abu Huraira reported from the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) (a hadith) like it, except the words: "Nor of those who err," say "Amin" and added: "And don't rise up ahead of him."
Hadith - 96
Abu Huraira reported: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'Verily, the Imam is a shield, say prayer sitting when he says prayer sitting.
And when he says: "Allah listens to him who praises Him," say: "O Allah, our Lord, to Thee be the praise."
And when the utterance of the people of the earth synchronises with that of the beings of heaven (angels), all the previous sins would be pardoned.'
Hadith - 97
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying: 'The Imam is appointed to be followed. So recite takbir when he recites it, and bow down when he bows down and when he utters: "Allah listens to him who praises Him," say, "O Allah, our Lord, for Thee be the praise." 
And when he prays, standing, you should pray standing. And when he prays sitting, all of you should pray sitting.'
Hadith - 98
Ubaidullah bin Abdullah reported: I visited 'A'isha and asked her to tell about the illness of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ). She agreed and said: 'The Apostle (ﷺ) was seriously ill and he asked whether the people had prayed. We said: "No, they are waiting for you, Messenger of Allah."
He (the Holy Prophet) said: "Put some water in the tub for me." We did accordingly and he (the Holy Prophet) took a bath; and, when he was about to move with difficulty, he fainted.
When he came round, he again said: "Have the people said prayer?" We said: "No, they are waiting for you, Messenger of Allah."
He (the Holy Prophet) again said: "Put some water for me in the tub." We did accordingly and he took a bath, but when he was about to move with difficulty, he fainted.
When he came round, he asked whether the people had prayed. We said: "No, they are waiting for you, Messenger of Allah."
He said: "Put some water for me in the tub." We did accordingly and he took a bath and he was about to move with difficulty when he fainted.
When he came round he said: "Have the people said prayer?" We said: "No, they are waiting for you, Messenger of Allah."
She ('A'isha) said: 'The people were staying in the mosque and waiting for the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) to lead the last (night) prayer.'
She ('A'isha) said: 'The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) sent (instructions) to Abu Bakr to lead the people in prayer. When the messenger came, he told him (Abd Bakr): "The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) has ordered you to lead the people in prayer."
Abu Bakr who was a man of very tenderly feelings asked Umar to lead the prayer. 'Umar said: "You are more entitled to that." Abu Bakr led the prayers during those days.
Afterwards the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) felt some relief and he went out supported by two men, one of them was al-'Abbas, to the noon prayer. Abu Bakr was leading the people in prayer.
When Abu Bakr saw him, he began to withdraw, but the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) told him not to withdraw. He told his two (companions) to seat him down beside him (Abu Bakr). They seated him by the side of Abu Bakr.
Abu Bakr said the prayer standing while following the prayer of the Apostle (ﷺ), and the people said prayer (standing) while following the prayer of Abu Bakr. The Apostle (ﷺ) was seated.'
Ubaidullah said: 'I visited 'Abdullah bin 'Abbas,' and said: 'Should I submit to you what 'A'isha had told about the illness of the Apostle (ﷺ)?' He said: 'Go ahead.'
I submitted to him what had been transmitted by her ('A'isha). He objected to none of it, only asking whether she had named to him the man who accompanied al-'Abbas. I said: 'No.' He said: 'It was 'Ali.'
Hadith - 99
A'isha reported: 'It was in the house of Maimuna that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) first fell ill. He asked permission from his wives to stay in her ('A'isha's) house during his illness. They granted him permission.'
She ('A'isha) narrated: 'He (the Holy Prophet) went out (for prayer) with his hand over al-Fadl bin 'Abbas and on the other hand there was another person and (due to weakness) his feet dragged on the earth.'
'Ubaidullah said: I narrated this hadith to the son of 'Abbas ('Abdullah bin 'Abbas) and he said: 'Do you know who the man was whose name 'A'isha did not mention? It was 'Ali.'
Hadith - 100
A'isha, the wife of the Apostle (ﷺ), said: 'When the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) fell ill and his illness became serious, he asked permission from his wives to stay in my house during his illness. They gave him permission to do so.
He stepped out (of 'A'isha's apartment for prayer) supported by two persons. (He was so much weak) that his feet dragged on the ground and he was being supported by 'Abbas bin 'Abd al-Muttalib and another person.'
'Ubaidullah said: 'I informed 'Abdullah (bin 'Abbas) about that which 'A'isha had said. 'Abdullah bin 'Abbas said: "Do you know the man whose name 'A'isha did not mention?" He said: "No." Ibn 'Abbas said: "It was 'Ali."'
Hadith - 101
A'isha, the wife of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), said: I tried to dissuade the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) from it (i.e. from appointing Abu Bakr as the Imam) and my insistence upon it was not due to the fact that I entertained any apprehension in my mind that the people would not love the man who would occupy his (Prophet's) place (i.e. who would be appointed as his caliph) and I feared that the people would be superstitious about one who would occupy his place.
I, therefore, desired that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) should leave Abu Bakr aside in this matter.
Hadith - 102
A'isha reported: When the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) came to my house, he said: "Ask Abu Bakr to lead people in prayer."
'A'isha narrated: I said, "Messenger of Allah, Abu Bakr is a man of tenderly feelings; as he recites the Qur'an, he cannot help shedding tears: so better command anyone else to lead the prayer."
By Allah, there is nothing disturbing in it for me but the idea that the people may not take evil omen with regard to one who is the first to occupy the place of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ).
I tried to dissuade him (the Holy Prophet) twice or thrice (from appointing my father as an Imam in prayer), but he ordered Abu Bakr to lead the people in prayer, and said: "You women are like those (who had) surrounded Yusuf."
Hadith - 103
A'isha reported: 'When the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) was confined to bed, Bilal came to him to summon him to prayer. He (the Holy Prophet) said: "Ask Abu Bakr to lead the people in prayer."'
She ('A'isha) reported: 'I said: "Messenger of Allah, Abu Bakr is a tenderhearted man, when he would stand at your place (he would be so overwhelmed by feelings) that he would not be able to make the people hear anything (his recitation would not be audible to the followers in prayer). You should better order Umar (to lead the prayer)."
He (the Holy Prophet) said: "Ask Abu Bakr to lead people in prayer."' She ('A'isha) said: 'I asked Hafsa to (convey) my impression to him (the Holy Prophet) that Abu Bakr was a tenderhearted man, so when he would stand at his place, he would not be able to make the people bear anything. He better order Umar.'
Hafsa conveyed this (message of Hadrat 'A'isha) to him (the Holy Prophet). The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "(You are behaving) as if you are the females who had gathered around Yusuf. Order Abu Bakr to lead the people in prayer."
She ('A'isha) reported: 'So Abu Bakr was ordered to lead the people in prayer. As the prayer began, the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) felt some relief; he got up and moved supported by two persons and his feet dragged on earth (due to excessive weakness).'
'A'isha reported: 'As he (the Holy Prophet) entered the mosque, Abu Bakr perceived his (arrival). He was about to withdraw, but the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) by the gesture (of his hand) told him to keep standing at his place. The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) came and seated himself on the left side of Abu Bakr.'
She ('A'isha) reported: 'The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) was leading the people in prayer sitting. Abu Bakr was following the prayer of the Apostle (ﷺ) in a standing posture and the people were following the prayer of Abu Bakr.'
Hadith - 104
A'mash reported: "When the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) suffered from illness of which he died," and in the hadith transmitted by Ibn Mus-hir, the words are: "The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) was brought till he was seated by his (Abu Bakr's) side and the Apostle (ﷺ) led the people in prayer and Abu Bakr was making takbir audible to them"
And in the hadith transmitted by 'Isa the (words are): "The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) sat and led the people in prayer and Abu Bakr was by his side and he was making (takbir) audible to the people."
Hadith - 105
A'isha reported: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) ordered Abu Bakr that he should lead people in prayer during his illness, and he led them in prayer.
`Urwa said: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) felt relief and went (to the mosque) and Abu Bakr was leading the people in prayer. When Abu Bakr saw him, he began to withdraw, but the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) signaled him to remain where he was.
The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) sat opposite to Abu Bakr by his side. Abu Bakr said prayer following the prayer of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), and the people said prayer following the prayer of Abu Bakr.
Hadith - 106
Anas bin Malik reported: Abu Bakr led them in prayer due to the illness of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) of which he died.
It was a Monday and they stood in rows for prayer. The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) drew aside the curtain of ('A'isha's) apartment and looked at us while he was standing, and his (Prophet's) face was (as bright) as the paper of the Holy Book. The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) felt happy and smiled.
And we were confounded with joy while in prayer due to the arrival (among our midst) of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), Abu Bakr stepped back upon his heels to say prayer in a row perceiving that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) had come out for prayer.
The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) with the help of his hand signed to them to complete their prayer. The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) went back (to his apartment) and drew the curtain.
He (the narrator) said: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) breathed his last on that very day.
Hadith - 107
Anas reported: "The last glance that I have had of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) (before his death) was that when he on Monday drew the curtain aside." The hadith transmitted by Salih is perfect and complete.
Hadith - 108
This hadith is narrated on the authority of Anas bin Malik by another chain of transmitters.
Hadith - 109
Anas reported: The Apostle of Allah (ﷺ) did not come to us for three days. When the prayer was about to start. Abu Bakr stepped forward (to lead the prayer), and the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) lifted the curtain.
When the face of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) became visible to us, we (found) that no sight was more endearing to us than the face of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as it appeared to us. 
The Apostle of Allah (ﷺ) with the gesture of his hand directed Abu Bakr to step forward (and lead the prayer). The Apostle of Allah (ﷺ) then drew the curtain, and we could not see him till he died.
Hadith - 110
Abu Musa reported: When the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) became ill and illness became serious, he ordered Abu Bakr to lead the people in prayer.
Upon this, 'A'isha said: "Messenger of Allah, Abd Bakr is a man of tenderly feelings. When he would stand in your place (he would be so much overwhelmed by grief that) he would not be able to lead the people in prayer."
He (the Holy Prophet) said: "You order Abu Bakr to lead the people in prayer," and added: "You are like the female companions of Yusuf." So Abu Bakr led the prayer (during this period of illness) in the life of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ).
Hadith - 111
Sahl bin Sa'd al-Sa'idi reported: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) went to the tribe of Bani Amr bin Auf in order to bring reconciliation amongst (its members), and it was a time of prayer.
The Mu'adhdhin came to Abu Bakr and said: "Would you lead the prayer in case I recite takbir (tahrima, with which the prayer begins)?" He (Abu Bakr) said: "Yes."
He (the narrator) said: He (Abu Bakr) started (leading) the prayer. The people were engaged in observing prayer when the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) happened to come there and made his way (through the people) till he stood in a row.
The people began to clap (their hands), but Abu Bakr paid no heed (to it) in prayer. When the people clapped more vigorously, he (Abu Bakr) then paid heed and saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) there.
(He was about to withdraw when) the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) signed to him to keep standing at his place. Abu Bakr lifted his hands and praised Allah for what the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) had commanded him, and then Abu Bakr withdrew himself till he stood in the midst of the row and the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) stepped forward and led the prayer.
When (the prayer) was over, he (the Holy Prophet) said: "O Abu Bakr, what prevented you from standing (at that place) as I ordered you to do?" Abu Bakr said: "It does not become the son of Abu Quhafa to lead prayer before the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ)."
The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said (to the people) around him: "What is it that I saw you clapping so vigorously? (Behold) when anything happens in prayer, say: 'Subhan Allah,' for when you would utter it, it would attract the attention, while clapping of hands is meant for women."
Hadith - 112
This hadith is transmitted by Sahl bin Sa'd in the same way as narrated by Malik, with the exception of these words: "Abu Bakr lifted his hands and praised Allah and retraced his (steps) till he stood in a row."
Hadith - 113
Sahl bin Sa'd al-Sa'idi reported: "The Apostle of Allah (ﷺ) went to Bani Amr bin 'Auf in order to bring about reconciliation amongst them."
The rest of the hadith is the same but with (the addition of these words): "The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) came and made his way through the rows till he came to the first row and Abu Bakr retraced his steps."
Hadith - 114
Mughira bin Shu'ba reported that he participated in the expedition of Tabuk along with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ). The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) went out to answer the call of nature before the morning prayer, and I carried along with him a jar (full of water).
When the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) came back to me (after relieving himself), I began to pour water upon his hands out of the jar and he washed his hands three times, then washed his face three times.
He then tried to tuck up the sleeves of his cloak upon his forearms, but since the sleeves were tight, he inserted his hands in the cloak and then brought out his forearms up to the elbow below the cloak, and then wiped over his shoes and then moved on.
Mughira said: I also moved along with him till he came to the people and (he found) that they had been saying their prayer under the Imamah of 'Abd al-Rahman bin 'Auf. The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) could get one rak'ah out of two and said (this) last rak'ah along with the people.
When Abd al-Rahman bin 'Auf pronounced the salutation, the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) got up to complete the prayer. This made the Muslims terrified and most of them began to recite the glory of the Lord.
When the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) finished his prayer, he turned towards them and then said: "You did well," or said with a sense of joy: "You did the right thing that you said prayer at the appointed hour."
Hadith - 115
This hadith is narrated by Hamza bin Mughira by another chain of transmitters (but with the addition of these words): I made up my mind to hold Abd al-Rahman bin 'Auf back, but the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Leave him."
Hadith - 116
Abu Huraira reported: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Glorification of Allah is for men and clapping of hands is meant for women (if something happens in prayer)."
Harmala added in his narration that Ibn Shihab told him: I saw some of the scholars glorifying Allah and making a gesture.
Hadith - 117
This hadith is narrated on the authority of Abu Huraira by another chain of transmitters.
Hadith - 118
This hadith is transmitted by Muhammad bin Rafi', Abdur-Razzaq, Ma'mar, Hammam on the authority of Abu Huraira with the addition of (the word) "prayer."
Hadith - 119
Abu Huraira reported: One day the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) led the prayer. Then turning (towards his Companions) he said: "O you man, why don't you say your prayer well? Does the observer of prayer not see how he is performing the prayer, for he performs it for himself? By Allah, I see behind me as I see in front of me."
Hadith - 120
Abu Huraira reported: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Do you find me seeing towards the Qibla only? By Allah, your bowing and your prostrating are not hidden from my view. Verily, I see them behind my back."
Hadith - 121
Anas bin Malik reported: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Perform bowing and prostration well. By Allah, I see you even if you are behind me," or he said: "(I see you) behind my back when you bow or prostrate."
Hadith - 122
Anas reported: The Apostle of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Complete the bowing and prostration well. By Allah, I see you behind my back as to how you bow and prostrate", or "when you bow and prostrate."
Hadith - 123
Anas reported: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) one day led us in the prayer, and when he completed the Prayer, he turned his face towards us and said: "O People, I am your Imam, so do not precede me in bowing and prostration and in standing and turning (faces, i.e. in pronouncing salutation), for I see you in front of me and behind me," and then said: "By Him in Whose hand is the life of Muhammad, if you could see what I see, you would have laughed little and wept much more."
They said: "What did you see, Messenger of Allah?" He replied: "(I saw) Paradise and Hell."
Hadith - 124
This hadith is narrated by Anas with another chain of transmitters, and in the hadith transmitted by Jarir there is no mention of "turning (faces)."
Hadith - 125
Abu Huraira reported: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Does the man who lifts his head ahead of the Imam (from prostration) not fear that Allah may change his head into the head of an ass?"
Hadith - 126
Abu Huraira reported: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Does the man who lifts his head before the Imam not fear that Allah may change his face into that of an ass?"
Hadith - 127
This hadith has been narrated by Abu Huraira by another chain of transmitters except for the words narrated by Rabi' bin Muslim: "Allah may make his face like the face of an ass."
Hadith - 128
Jabir bin Samura reported: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "The people who lift their eyes towards the sky in Prayer should avoid it or they would lose their eyesight."
Hadith - 129
Abu Huraira reported: People should avoid lifting their eyes towards the sky while supplicating in prayer, otherwise their eyes would be snatched away.
Hadith - 130
Jabir bin Samura reported: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) came to us and said: "How is it that I see you lifting your hands like the tails of headstrong horses? Be calm in prayer."
He (the narrator) said: He then again came to us and saw us (sitting) in circles. He said: "How is it that I see you in separate groups?"
He (the narrator) said: He again came to us and said: "Why don't you draw yourselves up in rows as angels do in the presence of their Lord?"
We said: "Messenger of Allah, how do the angels draw themselves up in rows in the presence of their Lord?" He (the Holy Prophet) said: "They make the first rows complete and keep close together in the row."
Hadith - 131
This hadith has been narrated by A'mash with the same chain of transmitters.
Hadith - 132
Jabir bin Samura reported: When we said prayer with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), we pronounced: "Peace be upon you and Mercy of Allah, peace be upon you and Mercy of Allah, and made gesture with the hand on both the sides."
Upon this, the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "What do you point out with your hands as if they are the tails of headstrong horses? This is enough for you that one should place one's hand on one's thigh and then pronounce salutation upon one's brother on the right side and then on the left."
Hadith - 133
Jabir bin Samura reported: We said our prayer with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) and, while pronouncing salutations, we made gestures with our hands (indicating) "Peace be upon you, peace be upon you."
The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) looked towards us and said: "Why is it that you make gestures with your hands like the tails of headstrong horses? When any one of you pronounces salutation (in prayer) he should only turn his face towards his companion and should not make a gesture with his hand."
Hadith - 134
Abu Mas'ud reported: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to touch our shoulders in prayer and say: "Keep straight, don't be irregular, for there would be dissension in your hearts.
Let those of you who are sedate and prudent be near me, then those who are next to them, then those who are next to them."
Abu Mas'ud said: Now-a-days there is much dissension amongst you.
Hadith - 135
This hadith is narrated by Ibn Uyaina with the same chain of transmitters.
Hadith - 136
Abdullah bin Mas'ud reported: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Let those who are sedate and prudent be near me, then those who are next to them (saying it three times), and beware of the tumult of the markets."
Hadith - 137
Anas bin Malik reported: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Straighten your rows, for the straightening of a row is a part of the perfection of prayer."
Hadith - 138
Anas bin Malik reported: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Complete the rows, for I can see you behind my back."
Hadith - 139
Hammam bin Munabbih reported: This is what was transmitted to us by Abu Huraira from the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) and, while making a mention of a few ahadith, said: (The Messenger of Allah directed us thus): "Establish rows in prayer, for the making of a row (straight) is one of the merits of prayer."
Hadith - 140
Nu'man bin Bashir reported: I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: "Straighten your rows, or Allah would create dissension amongst you."
Hadith - 141
Nu'man bin Bashir reported: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to straighten our rows as if he were straightening an arrow with their help until he saw that we had learnt it from him.
One day he came out, stood up (for prayer) and was about to say: Allah is the Greatest, when he saw a man, whose chest was bulging out from the row, so he said: "Servants of Allah, you should straighten your rows or Allah would create dissension amongst you."
Hadith - 142
Abu 'Awana reported this hadith with the same chain of transmitters.
Hadith - 143
Abu Huraira reported: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "If the people were to know what excellence is there in the Adhan and in the first row, and they could not (get these opportunities) except by drawing lots, they would have definitely done that.
And if they were to know what excellence lies in joining the prayer in the first takbir (prayer), they would have vied with one another.
And if they were to know what excellence lies in the night prayer and morning prayer, they would have definitely come even if crawling (on their knees)."
Hadith - 144
Abu Sa'id al-Khudri reported: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) saw (a tendency) among his Companions to go to the back, so he said to them: "Come forward and follow my lead, and let those who come after you follow your lead. People will continue to keep back till Allah will put them at the back."
Hadith - 145
Abu Sa'id al-Khudri reported: "The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) saw people at the end of the mosque," and then the (above-mentioned hadith) was narrated.
Hadith - 146
Abu Huraira reported: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "If you were to know, or if they were to know, what (excellence) lies in the first rows, there would have been drawing of lots (for filling them);" and Ibn Harb said: "For (occupying) the first row there would have been drawing of lots."
Hadith - 147
It was narrated from Abu Huraira that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "The best rows for men are the first rows, and the worst ones the last ones, and the best rows for women are the last ones and the worst ones for them are the first ones."
Hadith - 148
This hadith is narrated by Suhail with the same chain of transmitters.
Hadith - 149
Sahl bin Sa'd reported: I saw men having tied (the ends) of their lower garments around their necks, like children, due to shortage of cloth and offering their prayers behind the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ). One of the proclaimers said: "O womenfolk, do not lift your heads till men raise (them)."
Hadith - 150
Salim narrated it from his father ('Abdullah bin Umar) that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "When women ask permission for going to the mosque, do not prevent them."
Hadith - 151
Abdullah bin Umar reported: I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) say: "Don't prevent your women from going to the mosque when they seek your permission."
Bilal bin 'Abdullah said: "By Allah, we shall certainly prevent them." On this, 'Abdullah bin Umar turned towards him and reprimanded him so harshly as I had never heard him do before.
He ('Abdullah bin Umar) said: "I am narrating to you that which comes from the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) and you (have the audacity) to say: 'By Allah, we shall certainly prevent them.'"
Hadith - 152
Ibn 'Umar reported: 'The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Do not prevent the maid-servants of Allah from going to the mosque."
Hadith - 153
Ibn Umar reported: I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: "When your women seek your permission for going to the mosque, you grant them (permission)."
Hadith - 154
Ibn 'Umar reported: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Do not prevent women from going to the mosque at night."
A boy said to 'Abdullah bin Umar: "We would never let them go out, that they may not be caught in evil." He (the narrator) said: Ibn Umar reprimanded him and said: "I am saying that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said this, but you say: 'We would not allow.'"
Hadith - 155
A hadith like this has been narrated by A'mash with the same chain of transmitters.
Hadith - 156
Ibn 'Umar reported: Grant permission to women for going to the mosque in the night. His son who was called Waqid said: 'Then they would make mischief.'
He (the narrator) said: He thumped his (son's) chest and said: "I am narrating to you the hadith of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), and you say: 'No.'"
Hadith - 157
Ibn Umar reported: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Do not deprive women of their share of the mosques, when they seek permission from you."
Bilal said: "By Allah, we would certainly prevent them." 'Abdullah said: "I say that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said it, and you say: 'We would certainly prevent them.'"
Hadith - 158
Zainab Thaqafiya reported: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "When any one of you (women) participates in the 'Isha' prayer, she should not perfume herself that night."
Hadith - 159
Zainab, the wife of Abdullah (bin 'Umar), reported: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said to us: "When any one of you comes to the mosque, she should not apply perfume."
Hadith - 160
Abu Huraira said: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Whoever (woman) fumigates herself with perfume should not join us in the 'Isha' prayer."
Hadith - 161
Amra, daughter of Abd al-Rahman, reported: I heard 'A'isha, the wife of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), say: "If the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) had seen what new things the women have introduced (in their way of life) he would have definitely prevented them from going to the mosque, as the women of Bani Isra'il were prevented."
Hadith - 162
This hadith has been narrated by Yahya bin Sa'id with the same chain of transmitters.
Hadith - 163
Ibn 'Abbas reported: The word of (Allah) Great and Glorious: 'And utter not thy prayer loudly, nor be low in it" (Surah 17: Ayah 110) was revealed as the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) was hiding himself in Mecca.
When he led his Companions in prayer, he raised his voice (while reciting the) Qur'an. And when the polytheists heard that, they reviled the Qur'an and Him Who revealed it and him who brought it.
Upon this, Allah, the Exalted, said to His Apostle (ﷺ): 'Utter not thy prayer so loudly that the polytheists may hear thy recitation and (recite it) not so low that it may be inaudible to your Companions.
Make them hear the Qur'an, but do not recite it loudly and seek a (middle) way between these. Recite between loud and low tone.'
Hadith - 164
A'isha reported that so far as these words of (Allah) Glorious and High are concerned: "And utter not thy prayer loudly, not be low in it" (Surah 17: Ayah 110), relate to supplication (du'a).
Hadith - 165
A hadith like this has been narrated by Hisham with the same chain of transmitters.
Hadith - 166
Ibn 'Abbas reported with regard to the words of Allah, Great and Glorious: "Move not thy tongue therewith" (Surah 40: Ayah 16) that when Gabriel brought revelation to him (the Holy Prophet), he moved his tongue and lips (with a view to committing it to memory instantly).
This was something hard for him and it was visible (from his face). Then Allah, the Exalted, revealed this Ayah: "Move not thy tongue therewith to make haste (in memorising it). Surely on us rests the collecting of it and the reciting of it" (Surah 40: Ayah 16), i.e. Verily it rests with Us that We would preserve it in your heart and (enable you) to recite it You would recite it when We would recite it and so follow its recitation, and He (Allah) said: "We revealed it, so listen to it attentively. Verily its exposition rests with Us, i.e. We would make it deliver by your tongue."
So when Gabriel came to him (to the Holy Prophet), he kept silence, and when he went away he recited as Allah had promised him.
Hadith - 167
Ibn Abbas reported with regard to the words: "Do not move thy tongue there with to make haste," that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) felt it hard and he moved his lips.
Ibn 'Abbas said to me (Sa'id bin Jubair): I move them just as the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) moved them. Then said Sa'id: I move them just as Ibn 'Abbas moved them, and he moved his lips.
Allah, the Exalted, revealed this: "Do not move your tongue therewith to make haste. It is with Us that its collection rests and its recital" (al-Qur'an, Surah 40: Ayah 16). He said: Its preservation in your heart and then your recital.
"So when We recite it, follow its recital." He said: Listen to it, and be silent and then it rests with Us that you recite it.
So when Gabriel came to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), he listened to him attentively, and when Gabriel went away, the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) recited as he (Gabriel) had recited it.
Hadith - 168
Ibn 'Abbas reported: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) neither recited the Qur'an to the Jinn nor did he see them. The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) went out with some of his Companions with the intention of going to the bazaar of 'Ukaz.
And there had been (at that time) obstructions between satans and the news from the Heaven, and there were flung flames upon them.
So satan went back to their people and they said: "What has happened to you?" They said: "There have been created obstructions between us and the news from the Heaven. And there have been flung upon us flames."
They said: "It cannot happen but for some (important) event. So traverse the eastern parts of the earth and the western parts and find out why is it that there have been created obstructions between us and the news from the Heaven."
So they went forth and traversed the easts of the earth and its wests. Some of them proceeded towards Tihama, and that is a nakhl towards the bazaar of 'Ukaz, and he (the Holy Prophet) was leading his Companions in the morning prayer.
So when they heard the Qur'an, they listened to it attentively and said: "It is this which has caused obstruction between us and news from the Heaven."
They went back to their people and said: "O our people, we have heard a strange Qur'an which directs us to the right path; so we affirm our faith in it and we would never associate anyone with our Lord."
And Allah, the Exalted and Glorious, revealed to His Apostle Muhammad (ﷺ): "It has been revealed to me that a party of Jinn listened to it" (Qur'an, Surah 72).
Hadith - 169
Dawud reported from 'Amir who said: I asked 'Alqama if Ibn Mas'ud was present with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) on the night of the Jinn (the night when the Prophet met them).
He (Ibn Mas'ud) said: No, but we were in the company of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) one night and we missed him. We searched for him in the valleys and the hills and said, "He has either been taken away (by jinn) or has been secretly killed."
He (the narrator) said: We spent the worst night which people could ever spend. When it was dawn, we saw him coming from the side of Hira'.
He (the narrator) reported: We said: "Messenger of Allah, we missed you and searched for you, but we could not find you, and we spent the worst night which people could ever spend."
He (the Holy Prophet) said: "There came to me an inviter on behalf of the Jinn and I went along with him and recited to them the Qur'an."
He (the narrator) said: He then went along with us and showed us their traces and traces of their embers.
They (the Jinn) asked him (the Holy Prophet) about their provision and he said: "Every bone on which the name of Allah is recited is your provision. The time it will fall in your hand it would be covered with flesh, and the dung of (the camels) is fodder for your animals."
The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Don't perform istinja with these (things) for these are the food of your brothers (Jinn)."
Hadith - 170
This hadith has been reported by Dawud with the same chain of transmitters up to the word (s): "The traces of their embers."
Sha'bi said: "They (the Jinn) asked about their provision, and they were the Jinn of al-jazira," up to the end of the hadith, and the words of Sha'bi have been directly transmitted from the hadith of Abdullah.
Hadith - 171
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of 'Abdullah from the Apostle (ﷺ) up to the words: "The traces of the embers," but he made no mention of what followed afterward.
Hadith - 172
Abdullah (bin Mas'ud) said: I was not with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) but I wish I were with him.
Hadith - 173
Ma'n reported: I heard it from my father who said: I asked Masruq who informed the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) about the night when they heard the Qur'an. He said: Your father, Ibn Mas'ud, narrated it to me that a tree informed him about that.
Hadith - 174
Abu Qatada reported: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) led us in prayer and recited in the first two rak'ahs of the noon and afternoon prayers Surat al-Fatiha and two (other) surahs.
And he would sometimes recite loud enough for us the verses. He would prolong the first rak'ah more than the second. And he acted similarly in the morning prayer.
Hadith - 175
Abu Qatada reported it on the authority of his father: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) would recite in the first two rak'ahs of the noon and afternoon prayers the opening chapter of the Book and another surah.
He would sometimes recite loud enough to make audible to us the verse and would recite in the last two rak'ahs Surat al-Fatiha (only).
Hadith - 176
Abu Sa'id al-Khudri reported: We used to estimate how long Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) stood in the noon and afternoon prayers, and we estimated that he stood in the first two rak'ahs of the noon prayer as long as it takes to recite Alif-Lam-Mim, Tanzil, i.e. Surah as-Sajda.
We estimated that he stood half that time in the last two rak'ahs; that he stood in the first two of the afternoon as long as he did in the last two at noon; and in the last two of the afternoon prayer about half that time.
Abu Bakr in his narration has made no mention of Alif-Lam-Mim, Tanzil, but said: "As long as it takes to recite thirty verses."
Hadith - 177
Abu Sa'id al-Khudri reported: The Apostle of Allah (ﷺ) used to recite in every rak'ah of the first two rak'ahs of the noon prayer about thirty verses, and in the last two about fifteen verses or half (of the first rak'ah), and in every rak'ah of the 'Asr prayer of the first two rak'ahs about fifteen verses, and in the last two verses half (of the first ones).
Hadith - 178
Jabir bin Samura reported: The people of Kufa complained to Umar bin Khattab about Sa'd and they made a mention of his prayer. 'Umar sent for him. He came to him. He ('Umar) told him that the people had found fault with his prayer.
He said: "I lead them in prayer in accordance with the prayer of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ). I make no decrease in it. I make them stand for a longer time in the first two (rak'ahs) and shorten it in the last two." Upon this, 'Umar remarked: "This is what I deemed of thee, O Abu Ishaq."
Hadith - 179
This hadith his been narrated by 'Abu al-Malik with the same chain of transmitters.
Hadith - 180
Jabir bin Samura reported: 'Umar said to Sa'd: "They complain against you in every matter, even in prayer." He (Sa'd) said: "I prolong (standing) in the first two (rak'ahs) and shorten it in the last two, and I make no negligence in following the prayer of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ)."
He ('Umar) remarked: "This is what is expected of you," or, "that is what I deemed of you."
Hadith - 181
This hadith is narrated by Jabir bin Samura but with the addition of these words: "(Sa'd said): These bedouins presume to teach me prayer."
Hadith - 182
Abu Sa'id al-Khudri reported: The noon prayer would start and one would go to al-Baqi' and after having relieved himself he would perform ablution and then come, while the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) would be in the first rak'ah, because he would prolong it so much.
Hadith - 183
Qaz'a reported: I came to Abu Sa'id al-Khudri and he was surrounded by people. When the people departed from him, I said: "I am not going to ask you what these people have been asking you. I want to ask you about the prayer of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ)."
He (Abu Sa'id) said: "There is no good for you in this." He (Qaz'a), however, repeated (his demand).
He then said: "The noon prayer would start and one of us would go to Baqi' and, having relieved himself, would come to his home, then perform ablution and go to the mosque, and (he would find) The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) in the first rak'ah."
Hadith - 184
Abdullah bin Sa'id reported: The Apostle of Allah (ﷺ) led us in the morning prayer in Mecca and began Surat al-Mu'minin (Surah 23) but when he came to the mention of Moses and Aaron (verse 45) or to the mention of Jesus (verse 50), a cough got the better of him, and he bowed. 'Abdullah bin Sa'ib was present there.
And in the hadith narrated by Abd al-Razzaq (the words are): He cut short (the recitation) and bowed.
Hadith - 185
Amr bin Huwairith reported: I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) recite in the morning prayer Surah At-Takwir, Ayah 17.
Hadith - 186
Qutba bin Malik reported: I said prayer and the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) led it and he recited "Qaf. By the Glorious Qur'an," till he recited "and the tall palm trees" (Surah 50: Ayah 10). I wanted to repeat it but I could not follow its significance.
Hadith - 187
Qutba bin Malik reported that he had heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) reciting in the morning prayer this: "And the tall palm trees having flower spikes piled one above another" (Al-Qur'an Surah 50: Ayah 10).
Hadith - 188
Ziyad bin 'Ilaqa reported it on the authority of his uncle that he said the morning prayer with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) and he recited in the first rak'ah: "And the tall palm trees having flower spikes piled one above another" (Surah 50: Ayah 10) or perhaps Surah Qaf.
Hadith - 189
Jabir bin Samura reported: The Apostle of Allah (ﷺ) used to recite in the morning prayer "Qaf. By the Glorious Quran" and his prayer afterward shortened.
Hadith - 190
Simak asked Jabir bin Samura about the prayer of the Apostle (ﷺ). He said: He (the Holy Prophet) shortened the prayer and he did not pray like these people then, and he informed me that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to recite "Qaf. By the (Glorious) Qur'an," and a passage of similar length.
Hadith - 191
Jabir bin Samura reported: The Apostle of Allah (ﷺ) used to recite in the noon prayer: "By the night when it envelopes" (Surah 92), and in the afternoon like this, but he prolonged the morning prayer as compared to that (noon and afternoon prayers).
Hadith - 192
Jabir bin Samura reported: The Apostle of Allah (ﷺ) used to recite in the noon prayer: "Glorify the name of thy Most High Lord," (Surah 87), and in the morning prayer, longer than this.
Hadith - 193
Abu Barza reported: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to recite in the morning prayer from sixty to one hundred verses.
Hadith - 194
Abu Barza Aslami reported: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to recite from sixty to one hundred verses in the morning prayer.
Hadith - 195
Ibn Abbas reported: Umm al-Fadl, daughter of al-Harith, heard him reciting: "By those sent forth to spread goodness" (Surah 77).
(Upon this) she remarked: O my son, you reminded me by the recitation of this surah (the fact) that it was the last surah that I heard from the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) and he recited it in the evening prayer.
Hadith - 196
This hadith has been narrated by Zuhri with the same chain of transmitters but with this addition: "And he did not lead the player after this till his death."
Hadith - 197
Jubair bin Mut'im reported: I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) reciting Surat at-Tur (Mountain) (Surah 52) in the evening prayer.
Hadith - 198
This hadith has been narrated by Zuhri with the same chain of transmitters.
Hadith - 199
Adi reported: I heard al-Bara' narrating it from the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) that while in a journey, he said the night prayer and recited in one of the two rak'ahs: "By the Fig and the Olive" (Surah 95).
Hadith - 200
Al-Bara' bin 'Azib reported that he said prayer with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) and he recited: "By the Fig and the Olive" (Surah 95).
Hadith - 201
Al-Bara' bin 'Azib reported: I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) reciting in the night prayer: "By the Fig and the Olive," and I have never heard anyone with a sweeter voice than he.
Hadith - 202
Jabir reported that Mu'adh bin Jabal used to pray with the Apostle (ﷺ), then came and led his people in prayer.
One night, he said the night prayer with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ). He then came to his people and led them in prayer beginning with Surat al-Baqara.
A man turned aside, pronounced the taslim (salutation for concluding the prayer), then prayed alone and departed. The people said to him: "Have you become a hypocrite, so-and-so?" He said: "I swear by Allah that I have not, but I will certainly go to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and will inform (him) about this."
He then came to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) and said: "Messenger of Allah, we look after camels used for watering and work by day. Mu'adh said the night prayer with you. He then came and began with Surat al-Baqara."
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) then turned to Mu'adh and said: "Are you there to (put the people) to trial? Recite such and recite such (and such a surah)."
It is transmitted on the authority of Jabir, as told by Sufyan, that he (the Holy Prophet) had said: "By the sun and its morning brightness" (Surah 91), "By brightness" (Surah 93), "By the night when it spreads" (Surah 92), and "Glorify the name of thy most high Lord" (Surah 82).
Hadith - 203
Jabir reported: 'Mu'adh bin Jabal al-Ansari led his companions in the night prayer and prolonged it for them. A person amongst us said prayer (after having separated himself from the congregation).
Mu'adh was informed of this, and he remarked that he was a hypocrite. When it (the remark) was conveyed to the man, he went to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) and informed him of what Mu'adh had said.
Upon this, the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said to him: "Mu'adh, do you want to become a person putting (people) to trial?
When you lead people in prayer, recite: 'By the Sun and its morning brightness' (Surat ash-Shams), 'Glorify the name of thy most high Lord' (Surat al-A`la) and 'Read in the name of Lord' (Surat al-`Alaq), and 'By the night when it spreads' (Surat al-Lail)."
Hadith - 204
Jabir bin 'Abdullah reported: Mu'adh bin Jabal said the night prayer with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) and then returned to his people and then led them in this prayer.
Hadith - 205
Jabir bin Abdullah reported: Mu'adh said the night prayer with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ). He then came to the mosque of his people and led them in prayer.
Hadith - 206
Abu Mas'ud al-Ansari reported: A person came to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) and said: "I keep away from the morning prayer on account of such-and-such (a man), because he keeps us so long."
I never saw God's Messenger (ﷺ) more angry when giving an exhortation than he was that day.
He said: "O people, some of you are scaring people away. So whoever of you leads the people in prayer he must be brief, for behind him are the weak, the aged, and the people who have (urgent) business to attend."
Hadith - 207
This hadith like one narrated by Hushaym has been narrated from Isma'il with the same chain of transmitters.
Hadith - 208
Abu Huraira reported: The Apostle of Allah (ﷺ) said: "When any one of you leads the people in prayer, he should be brief for among them are the young and the aged, the weak and the sick. But when one of you prays by himself, he may (prolong) as he likes."
Hadith - 209
Hammam bin Munabbih reported: This is what Abu Huraira transmitted to us from Muhammad the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), and he narrated (some) ahadith out of (these narrations and one of them is this): The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "When any one of you stands to lead people in prayer, he should shorten it, for amongst them are the aged, and amongst them are the weak, but when he prays by himself, he may prolong his prayer as he likes."
Hadith - 210
Abu Huraira reported: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "When any one of you leads people in prayer, he must shorten it for among them are the weak, the infirm and those who have business to attend."
Hadith - 211
Abu Bakr bin 'Abd al-Rahman reported that he had heard Abu Huraira say that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said like it, but he substituted "the aged" for "the infirm."
Hadith - 212
Uthman bin Abu'l-'As at-Thaqafi reported: The Apostle of Allah (ﷺ) said to him: "Lead your people in prayer." I said: "Messenger of Allah, I perceive something (disturbing) in my soul."
He (the Holy Prophet) asked me to draw near him and making me sit down in front of him he placed his hand on my breast between my nipples. And then, telling me to turn round, he placed it on my back between my shoulders.
He then said: "Act as an Imam for your people. He who acts as Imam of the people, he must be brief, for among them are the aged, among them are the sick, among them are the weak, and among them are the people who have business to attend. But when any of you prays alone, he may pray as he likes."
Hadith - 213
Uthman bin Abu'l-'As reported: The last thing which the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) instructed me was: "When you lead the people in prayer, be brief."
Hadith - 214
Anas reported: The Apostle of Allah (ﷺ) used to be brief and perfect in prayer.
Hadith - 215
Anas reported: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) was among those whose prayers was brief and perfect.
Hadith - 216
Anas reported: I never prayed behind an Imam who was more brief and more perfect in prayer than the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ).
Hadith - 217
Anas reported: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) would listen to the crying of a lad in the company of his mother, in prayer, and he would recite a short surah or a small surah.
Hadith - 218
Anas bin Malik reported the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) having said: "When I begin the prayer I intend to make it long, but I hear a boy crying; I then shorten it because of his mother's feelings."
Hadith - 219
Al-Bara' bin 'Azib reported: I noticed the prayer of Muhammad (ﷺ) and saw his Qiyam (standing), his bowing, and then going back to the standing posture after bowing, his prostration, his sitting between the two prostrations, and his prostration and sitting between salutation and going away, all these were nearly equal to one another.
Hadith - 220
Hakam reported: There dominated in Kufa a man whose name was mentioned as Zaman bin al-Ash'ath, who ordered Abu 'Ubaidah bin 'Abdullah to lead people in prayer, and he accordingly used to lead them.
Whenever he raised his head after bowing, he stood up equal to the time that I can recite (this supplication): "O Allah! Our Lord! Unto Thee be the praise which would fill the heavens and the earth, and that which will please Thee besides them I Worthy art Thou of all praise and glory.
None can prevent that which Thou bestowest, and none can bestow that which thou preventest. And the greatness of the great will not avail him against Thee."
Hakam (the narrator) said: I made a mention of that to Abd al-Rahman ibn Abi Laila, who reported: I heard al-Bara' bin 'Azib say that the prayer of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) and his bowing, and when he lifted his head from bowing, and his prostration, and between the two prostrations (all these acts) were nearly proportionate.
I made a mention of that to 'Amr bin Murrah and he said: "I saw Ibn Abi Laila (saying the prayer), but his prayer was not like this."
Hadith - 221
Hakam reported: "When Matar bin Najiya dominated Kufa, he ordered Abu Ubaida to lead people in prayer," and the rest of the hadith is the same.
Hadith - 222
Thabit reported it on the authority of Anas: While leading you in prayer, I do not shorten anything in the prayer. I pray as I saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) leading us.
He (Thabit) said: Anas used to do that which I do not see you doing; when he lifted his head from bowing he stood up (so long) that one would say: "He has forgotten (to bow down in prostration)."
And when he lifted his head from prostration, he stayed in that position, till someone would say: "He has forgotten (to bow down in prostration for the second sajda)."
Hadith - 223
Thabit reported it on the authority of Anas: I have never said such a light and perfect prayer as I said behind the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ). The prayer of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) was well balanced. And so too was the prayer of Abu Bakr well balanced. When it was the time of 'Umar bin al-Khattab he prolonged the morning prayer.
When the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Allah listened to him who praised Him," he stood erect till we said: "He has forgotten." He then prostrated and sat between two prostration till we said: "He has forgotten."
Hadith - 224
Al-Bara' (bin 'Azib), and he was no liar (but a truthful Companion of the Holy Prophet), reported: They used to say prayer behind the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ). I never saw anyone bending his back at the time when he (the Holy Prophet) raised his head, till the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) placed his forehead on the ground. They then fell in prostration after him.
Hadith - 225
Al-Bara' reported, and he was no liar: When the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Allah listened to him who praised Him," none of us bent his back till he (the Holy Prophet) prostrated; we then, afterwards, went down in prostration.
Hadith - 226
Al-Bara' reported: They (the Companions) said prayer with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), and they bowed when he (the Holy Prophet) bowed. and when he raised his head after bowing, he pronounced: "Allah listened to him who praised Him," and we kept standing till we saw him placing his face on the ground, and then we followed him.
Hadith - 227
Al-Bara' reported: When we were (in prayer) with the Messenger of Allah Allah (ﷺ) none of us bent his back till we saw he prostrated.
Zuhair and others reported: "till we saw him prostrating."
Hadith - 228
Amr bin Huraith reported: I said the dawn prayer behind the Apostle of (ﷺ) and heard him reciting: "Nay, I call to witness the stars, running their courses and setting" (al-Qur'an, Surah 81: Ayat 15-16) and none of us bent his back till he completed prostration.
Hadith - 229
Abdullah Ibn Abi Aufa reported: When the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) raised his back from the ruku' he pronounced: "Allah listened to him who praised Him. O Allah! our Lord! unto Thee be praise that would fill the heavens and the earth and fill that which will please Thee besides them."
Hadith - 230
Abdullah bin Aufa reported: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to recite this supplication: "O Allah! our Lord, unto Thee be praise that would fill the heavens and the earth and fill that which will please Thee besides them."
Hadith - 231
Abdullah bin Abu Aufa reported that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to recite (this supplication): "O Allah! our Lord, unto Thee be praise that would fill the heavens and the earth and fill that which will please Thee besides (them).
O Allah! purify me with snow, (water of) hail and with cold water. O Allah, cleanse me from the sins and errors just as a white garment is cleansed from dirt."
Hadith - 232
This hadith with the same chain of transmitters has been narrated by Shu'ba, and in the narration of Mu'adh the words are: "just as the white garment is cleansed from filth," and in the narration of Yazid: "from dirt."
Hadith - 233
Abu Sa'id al-Khudri reported: When the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) raised his head after bowing, he said: "O Allah! our Lord, to Thee be the praise that would fill all the heavens and the earth, and all that it pleases Thee besides (them).
O, thou art worthy of praise and glory, most worthy of what a servant says, and we all are Thy servants, no one can withhold what Thou givest or give what Thou withholdest, and riches cannot avail a wealthy person against Thee."
Hadith - 234
Ibn Abbas reported: When the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) raised his head after bowing, he said: "Allah! our Lord, to Thee be the praise that would fill the heavens and the earth and that which is between them, and that which will please Thee besides (them).
Worthy art Thou of all praise and glory. No one can withhold what Thou givest, or give what Thou withholdest. And the greatness of the great availeth not against Thee."
Hadith - 235
Ibn Abbas reported from the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) the words: "And that would fill that which will please Thee besides (them)!" and he did not mention the subsequent (portion of supplication).
Hadith - 236
Ibn 'Abbas reported: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) drew aside the curtain (of his apartment) and (he saw) people in rows (saying prayer) behind Abu Bakr. And he said: "Nothing remains of the glad tidings of apostlehood, except good visions which a Muslim sees or someone is made to see for him.
And see that I have been forbidden to recite the Qur'an in the state of bowing and prostration. So far as Ruk'u is concerned, extol in it the Great and Glorious Lord, and while prostrating yourselves, be earnest in supplication, for it is fitting that your supplications should be answered."
Hadith - 237
Abdullah bin 'Abbas reported: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) drew aside the curtain and his head was bandaged on account of illness in which he died. He said: "O Allah, have I not delivered (Thy Message)?" (He repeated it) three times.
"Nothing has been left out of the glad tidings of apostlehood, but good vision, which a pious servant (of Allah) sees or someone else is made to see for him." He then narrated like the hadith transmitted by Sufyan.
Hadith - 238
Ali bin Abi Talib reported: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade me to recite (the Qur'an) in a state of bowing and prostration.
Hadith - 239
Ali bin Abi Talib reported: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade to recite the Qur'an while I am in the state of bowing and prostration.
Hadith - 240
Ali bin Abi Talib reported: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade me from the recitation (of the Qur'an) in bowing and prostration, and I do not say that he forbade you.
Hadith - 241
Ali reported: My loved one (the Holy Prophet) forbade me that I should recite (the Qur'an) in a state of bowing and prostration.
Hadith - 242
This hadith has been narrated by some other narrators, Ibn 'Abbas and others, and they all reported that 'Ali said: "The Apostle of Allah (ﷺ) forbade me to recite the Qur'an while I am in a state of bowing and prostration," and in their narration (there is a mention of) forbiddance from that (recital) in the state of prostration as it has been transmitted by Zuhri, Zaid bin Aslam, al-Wahid bin Kathir, and Dawud bin Qais.
Hadith - 243
This hadith is transmitted on the authority of 'Ali, but he made no mention of "while in prostration."
Hadith - 244
Ibn 'Abbas reported: "I was forbidden to recite (the Qur'an) while I was bowing," and there is no mention of 'Ali in the chain of transmitters.
Hadith - 245
Abu Huraira reported: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "The nearest a servant comes to his Lord is when he is prostrating himself, so make supplication (in this state)."
Hadith - 246
Abu Huraira reported: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to say while prostrating himself: "O Lord, forgive me all my sins, small and great, first and last, open and secret."
Hadith - 247
A'isha reported: The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him') often said while bowing and prostrating himself: "Glory be to Thee, O Allah, our Lord, and praise be to Thee, O Allah, forgive me," thus complying with the (command in) the Qur'an.
Hadith - 248
A'isha reported that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) before his death recited often: "Hallowed be Thou, and with Thy praise, I seek forgiveness from Thee and return to Thee."
She reported: I said: "Messenger of Allah, what are these words that I find you reciting?"
He said: "There has been made a sign for me in my Ummah; when I saw that, I uttered them (these words of glorification for Allah), and the sign is: "When Allah's help and victory..." to the end of the surah.
Hadith - 249
A'isha reported: Never did I, see the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) after the revelation (of these verses): "When Allah's help and victory came" observing his prayer without making (this supplication) or he said in it (supplication): "Hallowed be Thee, my Lord, and with Thy praise, O Allah, forgive me."
Hadith - 250
A'isha reported: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) recited often these words: "Hallowed be Allah and with His praise, I seek the forgiveness of Allah and return to Him."
She said: I asked: 'Messenger of Allah, I see that you often repeat the saying "Hallowed be Allah and with His praise, I seek the forgiveness of Allah and return to Him",' whereupon he said: 'My Lord informed me that I would soon see a sign in my Ummah, so when I see it, I often recite (these) words: "Hallowed be Allah and with His Praise, I seek forgiveness of Allah and return to Him."'
Indeed I saw it (when this verse) was revealed: "When Allah's help and victory came, it marked the victory of Mecca, and you see people entering into Allah's religion in troops, celebrate the praise of Thy Lord and ask His forgiveness. Surely He is ever returning to Mercy."
Hadith - 251
Ibn Juraij reported: I asked 'Ata': What do you recite when you are in a state of bowing (in prayer)? He said: "Hallowed be Thou, and with Thy praise, there is no god but Thou."
Son of Abd Mulaika narrated to me on the anthority of 'A'isha (who reported): I missed one night the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) (from his bed). I thought that he might have gone to one of his other wives.
I searched for him and then came back and (found him) in a state of bowing, or prostration, saying: "Hallowed be Thou and with Thy praise; there is no god but Thou."
I said: "With my father mayest thou be ransomed and with my mother. I was thinking of (another) affair, whereas you are (occupied) in another one."
Hadith - 252
A'isha reported: One night I missed Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) from the bed, and when I sought him my hand touched the soles of his feet while he was in the state of prostration; they (feet) were raised and he was saying: "O Allah, I seek refuge in Thy pleasure from Thy anger, and in Thy forgiveness from Thy punishment, and I seek refuge in Thee from Thee (Thy anger). I cannot reckon Thy praise. Thou art as Thou hast lauded Thyself."
Hadith - 253
A'isha reported that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to pronounce while bowing and prostrating himself: "All Glorious, All Holy, Lord of the Angels and the Spirit."
Hadith - 254
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of 'A'isha by another chain of transmitters.
Hadith - 255
Ma'dan bin Talha reported: I met Thauban, the freed slave of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), and asked him to tell me about an act for which, if I do it, Allah will admit me to Paradise, or I asked about the act which was loved most by Allah. He gave no reply.
I again asked and he gave no reply. I asked him for the third time, and he said: 'I asked Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) about that and he said: "Make frequent prostrations before Allah, for you will not make one prostration without raising you a degree because of it, and removing a sin from you, because of it."'
Ma'dan said that then he met Abu al-Darda' and when he asked him, he received a reply similar to that given by Thauban.
Hadith - 256
Rabi'a bin Ka'b said: I was with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) one night, and I brought him water and what he required. He said to me: "Ask (anything you like)." I said: "I ask your company in Paradise."
He (the Holy Prophet) said: "Or anything else besides it." I said: "That is all (what I require)." He said: "Then help me to achieve this for you by devoting yourself often to prostration."
Hadith - 257
Ibn 'Abbas reported: The Apostle of Allah (ﷺ) had been commanded that he should prostrate on the seven (bones) and he was forbidden to fold back the hair and clothing.
And in the narration transmitted by Abu Rabi' (the words are): "on the seven bones and I was forbidden to fold back the hair and clothing".
According to Abu'l-Rabi' (the seven bones are): The hands, the knees, and the (extremities) of the feet and the forehead.
Hadith - 258
Ibn 'Abbas reported from the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ): "I was commanded to prostrate myself on seven bones, and not to fold back clothing or hair."
Hadith - 259
Ibn 'Abbas reported: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) had been commanded to prostrate on seven (bones) and forbidden to fold back hair and clothing.
Hadith - 260
Ibn Abbas reported that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "I have been commanded to prostrate myself on seven bones: 'forehead,' and then pointed with his hand towards his nose, hands, feet, and the extremities of the feet; and we were forbidden to fold back clothing and hair."
Hadith - 261
Ibn Abbas reported: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "I was commanded to prostrate myself on the seven (bones) and forbidden to fold back hair and clothing. (The seven bones are): forehead, nose, hands, knees and feet."
Hadith - 262
It was narrated from Al-'Abbas bin 'Abdul Muttalib that he heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: "When a person prostates, he prostates on seven part of the body: His face, his hands, his knees and his feet."
Hadith - 263
Abdullah bin Abbas reported that he saw 'Abdullah bin al-Harith observing the prayer and (his hair) was plaited behind his head. He ('Abdullah bin 'Abbas) stood up and unfolded them.
While going back (from the prayer) he met Ibn 'Abbas and said to him: "Why is it that you touched my head?" He (Ibn 'Abbas) replied: "(The man who observes prayer with plaited hair) is like one who prays with his hands tied behind."
Hadith - 264
Anas reported: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Observe moderation in prostration, and let none of you stretch out his forearms (on the ground) like a dog."
Hadith - 265
This hadith has been narrated by Shu'ba with the same chain of transmitters. And in the hadith transmitted by Ibn Ja'far (the words are): "None of you should stretch out his forearms like the stretching out of a dog."
Hadith - 266
Al-Bara' (bin 'Azib) reported: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "When you prostrate yourself, place the palms of your hands on the ground and raise your elbows."
Hadith - 267
Abdullah bin Malik ibn Buhainah reported: When the Prophet (ﷺ) prostrated, he spread out his arms so that the whiteness of his armpits was visible.
Hadith - 268
This hadith has been narrated by Ja'far bin Rabi' with the same chain of transmitters. And in the narration transmitted by 'Amr bin al-Harith (the words are): "When the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) prostrated, he spread out his arms so that the whiteness of his armpits was visible."
And in the narration transmitted by al-Laith (the words are): "When the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) prostrated, he spread his hands from the armpits so that I saw their whiteness."
Hadith - 269
Maimuna reported: When the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) prostrated himself, if a lamb wanted to pass between his arms, it could pass.
Hadith - 270
Maimuna, the wife of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), reported: When the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) prostrated himself, he spread his arms, i.e. he separated them so much that the whiteness of his armpits became visible from behind, and when he sat (for Jalsa) he rested on his left thigh.
Hadith - 271
Maimuna daughter of Harith reported: "When the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) prostrated, he kept his hands so much apart from each other that when it was seen from behind the armpits became visible." Waki' said: "That is, their whiteness."
Hadith - 272
A'isha reported: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to begin prayer with takbir (saying Allahu Akbar) and the recitation: "Praise be to Allah, the Lord of the Universe."
When he bowed he neither kept his head up nor bent it down, but kept it between these extremes; when he raised his head after bowing he did not prostrate himself till he had stood erect; when he raised his head after prostration he did not prostrate himself again till he sat up.
At the end of every two rak'ahs he recited at-Tahiyyat; and he used to place his left foot flat (on the ground) and raise up the right; he prohibited the devil's way of sitting on the heels, and he forbade people to spread out their arms like a wild beast. And he used to finish the prayer with the taslim.
Hadith - 273
Musa bin Talha reported it on the authority of his father: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "When one of you places in front of him something such as the back of a saddle, he should pray without caring who passes on the other side of it."
Hadith - 274
Musa bin Talha reported on the authority of his father: We used to say prayer and the animals moved in front of us. We mentioned it to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), and he said: "If anything equal to the back of a saddle is in front of you, then what walks in front, no harm would come to him."
Ibn Numair said: No harm would come whosoever walks in front.
Hadith - 275
A'isha reported: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) was asked about sutra of a worshipper; he said: "Equal to the back of the saddle."
Hadith - 276
A'isha reported: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) was asked in the expedition of Tabuk about the sutra the worshipper; he said: "Like the back of the saddle."
Hadith - 277
Ibn Umar reported: When the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) went out on the 'Id day, he ordered to carry a spear and it was fixed in front of him, and he said prayer towards its (direction), and the people were behind him.
And he did it in the journey, and that is the reason why the Amirs carried it.
Hadith - 278
Ibn Umar reported: "The Apostle of Allah (ﷺ) set up (sutra)," and Abu Bakr said: "He implanted iron-tipped spear and said prayer towards its direction."
Ibn Abu Shaiba made this addition to it: "Ubaidullah said that it was a spear."
Hadith - 279
Ibn 'Umar said: The Apostle of Allah (ﷺ) used to place his camel (towards the Ka'ba) and said prayer in its direction.
Hadith - 280
Ibn 'Umar reported: "The Apostle of Allah (ﷺ) used to say prayer towards his camel." Ibn Numair said: "The Apostle of Allah (ﷺ) said prayer towards the camel."
Hadith - 281
Abu Juhaifa reported it on the authority of his father: I came to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) in Mecca and he was (at that time) at al-Abtah in a red leather tent.
And Bilal stepped out with ablution water for him. (And what was left out of that water) some of them got it (whereas others could not get it) and (those who got it) rubbed themselves with it.
Then the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) stepped out with a red mantle on him, and I was catching a glimpse of the whiteness of his shanks.
The narrator said: He (the Holy Prophet) performed the ablution, and Bilal pronounced Adhan and I followed his mouth (as he turned) this side and that as he said on the right and the left: "Come to prayer, come to success."
A spear was then fixed for him (on the ground). He stepped forward and said two rak'ahs of Zuhr, while there passed in front of him a donkey and a dog, and these were not checked.
He then said two rak'ahs of the 'Asr prayer, and he then continued saying two rak'ahs till he came back to Medina.
Hadith - 282
Abu Juhaifa reported on the authority of his father: I saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) (in Mecca at al-Abtah) in a red leather tent.
And I saw Bilal take the ablution water (left by Allah's Messenger), and I saw the people racing, with one another to get that ablution water. If anyone got some of it, he rubbed himself with it, and anyone who did not get any got some of the moisture from his companion's hand.
I then saw Bilal take a staff and fix it in the ground, after which the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) came out quickly in a red mantle and led the people in two rak'ahs facing the staff, and I saw people and animals passing in front of the staff.
Hadith - 283
Aun bin Abu Juhaifa narrated from the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) on the authority of his father a hadith like that of Sufyan, and 'Umar bin Abu Za'ida made this addition: "Some of them tried to excel the others (in obtaining water)," and in the hadith transmitted by Malik bin Mighwal (the words are): "When it was noon, Bilal came out and summoned (people) to (noon) prayer."
Hadith - 284
Abu Juhaifa reported: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) went at noon towards al-Batha', he performed ablution, and said two rak'ahs of the Zuhr prayer and two of the 'Asr prayer, and there was a spear in front of him.
Shu'ba said and Aun made this addition to it on the authority of his father Abu Juhaifa: And the woman and the donkey passed behind it.
Hadith - 285
Shu'ba narrated the same on the basis of two authorities and in the hadith transmitted by Hakam (the words are): The people began to get water that was left out of his (the Prophet's) ablution.
Hadith - 286
Ibn 'Abbas reported: I came riding on a she-ass, and I was on the threshold of maturity, and the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) was leading people in prayer at Mina.
I passed in front of the row and got down, and sent the she-ass for grazing and joined the row, and nobody made any objection to it.
Hadith - 287
Abdullah bin Abbas reported that he came riding on a donkey, and the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) was leading the people in prayer at Mina on the occasion of the Farewell Pilgrimage and (the narrator) reported: The donkey passed in front of the row, and then he got down from it and joined the row along with the people.
Hadith - 288
This hadith has been narrated by Ibn 'Uyaina on the authority of al-Zuhri with the same chain of transmitters and he reported: The Apostle of Allah (ﷺ) was leading prayer at 'Arafa.
Hadith - 289
This hadith has been reported by Ma'mar on the authority of al-Zuhri with the came chain of transmitters, but here no mention has been made of Mina or 'Arafa, and he said: It was in the Farewell Pilgrimage or on the Day of Victory.
Hadith - 290
Abu Sa'id al-Khudri reported that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "When any one of you prays he should not let anyone pass in front of him (if there is no sutra), and should try to turn him away as far as possible, but if he refuses to go, he should turn him away forcibly for he is a devil."
Hadith - 291
Abu Salih al-Samman reported: I narrate to you what I heard and saw from Abu Sa'id al-Khudri: 'One day I was with Abu Sa'id and he was saying prayer on Friday turning to a thing which concealed him from the people, when a young man from Banu Mu'ait came there and he tried to pass in front of him; he turned him back by striking his chest.
He looked about but finding no other way to pass except in front of Abu Sa'id, made a second attempt. He (Abu Sa'id) turned him away by striking his chest more vigorously than the first stroke.
He stood up and had a scuffle with Abu Sa'id. Then the people gathered there. He came out and went to Marwan and complained to him what had happened to him. Abu Sa'id too came to Marwan.
Marwan said to him: "What has happened to you and the son of your brother that he came to complain against you?"
Abu Sa'id said: "I heard from the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) saying: 'When any one of you prays facing something which conceals him from people and anyone tries to pass in front of him, he should be turned away, but if he refuses, he should be forcibly restrained from it, for he is a devil.'"
Hadith - 292
Abdullah bin 'Umar reported that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "When any one of you prays, he should not allow anyone to pass before him, and if he refuses, he should be then forcibly resisted, for there is a devil with him."
Hadith - 293
This hadith has been narrated by Ibn Umar by another chain of transmitters.
Hadith - 294
Busr bin Sa'id reported that Zaid bin Khalid al-Juhani sent him to Abu Juhaim in order to ask him what he had heard from the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) with regard to the passer in front of the worshipper.
Abu Juhaim reported that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "If anyone who passes in front of a man who is praying knew the responsibility he incurs, he would stand still forty (years) rather than to pass in front of him."
Abu Nadr said: I do not know whether he said forty days or months or years.
Hadith - 295
This hadith has been narrated from Abu Juhaim Ansari by another chain of transmitters.
Hadith - 296
Sahl bin Sa'd al-Sa'idi reported: Between the place of worship where the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) prayed and the wall, there was a gap through which a goat could pass.
Hadith - 297
Salama bin Akwa' reported: He sought the place (in the mosque) where the copies of the Qur'an were kept and glorified Allah there, and the narrator made a mention that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) sought that place and that was between the pulpit and the qibla - a place where a goat could pass.
Hadith - 298
Yazid reported: Salama sought to say prayer near the pillar which was by that place where copies of the Qur'an were kept.
I said to him: "Abu Muslim, I see you striving to offer your prayer by this pillar." He said: "I saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) seeking to pray by its side."
Hadith - 299
Abu Dharr reported: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "When any one of you stands for prayer and there is a thing before him equal to the back of the saddle that covers him and in case there is not before him (a thing) equal to the back of the saddle, his prayer would be cut off by (passing of an) ass, woman, and black dog."
I said: "O Abu Dharr, what feature is there in a black dog which distinguish it from the red dog and the yellow dog?"
He said: "O son of my brother, I asked the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as you are asking me, and he said: 'The black dog is a devil.'"
Hadith - 300
This hadith has been transmitted by Humaid bin Hilal on the authority of Yunus.
Hadith - 301
Abu Huraira reported: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "A woman, an ass and a dog disrupt the prayer, but something like the back of a saddle guards against that."
Hadith - 302
A'isha reported: The Prophet (ﷺ) used to pray at night while I lay interposed between him and the Qibla like a corpse on the bier.
Hadith - 303
A'isha reported: The Apostle of Allah (ﷺ) said his whole prayer (Tahajjud prayer) during the night while I lay between him and the Qibla. When he intended to say Witr (prayer) he awakened me and I too said witr (prayer).
Hadith - 304
Urwa bin Zubair reported: "A'isha asked: 'What disrupts the prayer?" We said: "The woman and the ass."
Upon this, she remarked: "Is the woman an ugly animal? I lay in front of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) like the bier of a corpse and he said prayer."
Hadith - 305
Masruq reported: It was mentioned before 'A'isha that prayer is invalidated (in case of passing) of a dog, an ass and a woman (before the worshipper, when he is not screened). 
Upon this, 'A'isha said: "You likened us to the asses and the dogs. By Allah, I saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) saying prayer while I lay on the bedstead interposing between him and the Qibla.
When I felt the need, I did not like to sit in front (of the Holy Prophet) and perturb the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) and quietly moved out from under its (i.e. of the bedstead) legs."
Hadith - 306
Al-Aswad reported that 'A'isha said: You have made us equal to the dogs and the asses, whereas I lay on the bedstead and the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) came there and stood in the middle of the bedstead and said prayer.
I did not like to take off the quilt from me (in that state), so I moved away quietly from the front legs of the bedstead and thus came out of the quilt.
Hadith - 307
A'isha reported: I was sleeping in front of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) with my legs between him and the Qibla. When he prostrated himself, he pinched me and I drew up my legs, and when he stood up, I stretched them out.
She said: At that time there were no lamps in the houses.
Hadith - 308
Maimuna, the wife of the Apostle (ﷺ), reported: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said prayer and I (lay) opposite to him while I was in menses. Sometimes his clothes touched me when he prostrated.
Hadith - 309
A'isha reported: The Apostle of Allah (ﷺ) said prayer at night and I was by his side in a state of meanses, and I had a sheet pulled over me a portion of which was on his side.
Hadith - 310
Abu Huraira reported: An inquirer asked the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) about the prayer in a single garment. He (the Holy Prophet) said: "Has everyone of you two garments?"
Hadith - 311
A hadith like this has been narrated by Abu Huraira with another chain of transmitters.
Hadith - 312
Abu Huraira reported: A person addressed the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) and said to him: "Can any one of us say prayer in one garment?" He said: "Do all of you possess two garments?"
Hadith - 313
Abu Huraira reported: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "None of you must pray in a single garment of which no part comes over his shoulders."
Hadith - 314
Umar bin Abu Salama reported: I saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) praying in Umm Salama's house in a single garment, placing its two ends over his shoulders.
Hadith - 315
This hadith has been narrated by Hisham bin 'Urwa with the same chain of transmitters except (with this difference) that the word "mutawashshihan" was used and not the word "mushtamilan."
Hadith - 316
Umar bin Abu Salama reported: I saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) saying prayer in the house of Umm Salama in a single garment with its extremities crossing each other.
Hadith - 317
Umar bin Abu Salama reported: I saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) praying in a single garment with its ends crossing each other. 'Isa bin Hammad added: "placing on his shoulders."
Hadith - 318
Jabir reported: I saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) praying in a single garment crossing the two ends.
Hadith - 319
This hadith has been narrated by Sufyan with the same chain of transmitters and in the hadith transmitted by Numair the words are: I called upon the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ).
Hadith - 320
Abu Zubair reported that he saw Jabir bin 'Abdullah praying in a single garment crossing its ends even though he had the garments, and Jabir said: He saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) doing like this.
Hadith - 321
Abu Sa'id al Khudri reported: I visited the Apostle (ﷺ) and saw him praying on a reed mat on which he was prostrating himself. And I saw him praying in a single garment with ends crossed with each other.
Hadith - 322
This hadith has been narrated by A'mash with the came chain of transmitters, and in the narration of Abu Kuraib the words are: "Placing its (mantle's) ends on his shoulders"; and the narration transmitted by Abu Bakr and Suwaid (the words are): "the ends crossing with each other."