Hadith - 1
Abu Huraira reported:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying: Allah, the Exalted and Glorious, said: The son of Adam abuses Dahr (the time), whereas I am Dahr since in My hand are the day and the night.
Hadith - 2
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Allah, the Exalted and Glorious, said: The son of Adam displeases Me by abusing Dahr (time), whereas I am Dahr--I alternate the night and the day.
Hadith - 3
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Allah, the Exalted and Glorious, said: The son of Adam causes Me pain as he says: Woe be upon the Time. None of you should say this: Woe be upon the Time, as I am the Time (because) I alternate the day and the night, and when I wish I can finish them up.
Hadith - 4
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:None of you should say: Woe be upon the Time, for verily Allah is the Time.
Hadith - 5
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) as saying:Do not curse Time, for it is Allah Who is Time.
Hadith - 6
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:None of you should abuse Time for it is Allah Who is the Time, and none of you should call 'Inab (grape) as al-karm, for karm is a Muslim person.
Hadith - 7
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Do not use the word karm (for wine) for worthy of respect is the heart of a believer.
Hadith - 8
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Do not name grape as karm, for worthy of respect is a Muslim.
Hadith - 9
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:None of you should use the word al-harin (for grape) for the heart of a believer is karm (worthy of respect).
Hadith - 10
Abu Huraira reported from Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) various ahadith, one of which is this that he said:None of you should use the word al-karm for 'Inab, for karm (worthy of respect) is a Muslim person.
Hadith - 11
Alqama b. Wa'il reported, from his father, Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) having said:Do not say al-karm (for the word vine) but say al-habala (that is grape).
Hadith - 12
This hadith has been reported by Alqama b. Wa'il on the authority of his father with a different chain of transmitters and with a slight variation of wording.
Hadith - 13
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:None of you should say: My bondman and my slave-girl, for all of you are the bondmen of Allah, and all your women are the slave-girls of Allah; but say: My servant, my girl, and my young man and my young girl.
Hadith - 14
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:None of you should say: My bondman, for all of you are the bondmen of Allah, but say: My young man, and the servant should not say: My Lord, but should say: My chief.
Hadith - 15
This hadith has been reported on the authority of al-A'mash with the same chain of transmitters, and the words are that the servant should not say to his chief:My Lord, and Abu Mu'awiya made an addition:" For it is Allah, the Exalted and Glorious, Who is your Lord.
Hadith - 16
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) so many ahadith and one of them is this that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said:None of you should say: Supply drink to your lord, feed your lord, help your lord in performing ablution, and none of you should say: My Lord. He should say: My chief, my patron; and none of you should say: My bondman, my slave-girl, but simply say: My boy, my girl, my servant.
Hadith - 17
A'isha reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) having said:None of you should say: "My soul has become evil," but he should say: "My soul has become remorseless." This hadith has been transmitted on the authority of Abu Bakr with a slight variation of wording.
Hadith - 18
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Abia Mu'iwiya with the same chain of transmitters.
Hadith - 19
Abu Umama b. Sahl b. Hunaif, on the authority of his father, reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:None of you should say:" My soul has become evil," but he should say:" My soul has become remorseless.
Hadith - 20
Abd Sa'id Khudri reported Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) as saying:There was a woman from Bani Isra'il who was short-statured and she walked in the company of two tall women with wooden sandals in her feet and a ring of gold made of plates with musk filled in them and then looked up, and musk is the best of scents; then she walked between two women and they (the people) did not recognise her, and she made a gesture with her hand like this, and Shu'ba shook his hand in order to give an indication how she shook her hand.
Hadith - 21
Abu Sa'id Khudri reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) made a mention of a woman of Bana Isra'il who had filled her ring with musk and musk is the most fragrant of the scents.
Hadith - 22
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:He who is presented with a flower should not reject it, for it is light to carry and pleasant in odour.
Hadith - 23
Nafi' reported that when Ibn Umar wanted fumigation he got it from aloeswood without mixing anything with it, or he put camphor along with aloeswood and then said:This is how Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) fumigated.
Hadith - 24
Amr b. Sharid reported his father as saying:One day when I rode behind Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), he said (to me): Do you remember any poetry of Umayya b. Abu Salt. I said: Yes. He said: Then go on. I recited a couplet, and he said: Go on. Then I again recited a couplet and he said: Go on. I recited one hundred couplets (of his poetry). This hadith has been reported on the authority of Sharid through another chain of transmitters but with a slight variation of wording.