Hadith - 1
Narrated Anas: The people mentioned the fire and the bell (they suggested those as signals to indicate the starting of prayers), and by that they mentioned the Jews and the Christians.
Then Bilal was ordered to pronounce Adhan for the prayer by saying its wordings twice, and for the Iqama (the call for the actual standing for the prayers in rows) by saying its wordings once. (Iqama is pronounced when the people are ready for the prayer).
Hadith - 2
Narrated Ibn `Umar: When the Muslims arrived at Medina, they used to assemble for the prayer, and used to guess the time for it. During those days, the practice of Adhan for the prayers had not been introduced yet.
Once they discussed this problem regarding the call for prayer. Some people suggested the use of a bell like the Christians, others proposed a trumpet like the horn used by the Jews, but `Umar was the first to suggest that a man should call (the people) for the prayer; so Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) ordered Bilal to get up and pronounce the Adhan for prayers.
Hadith - 3
Narrated Anas: Bilal was ordered to repeat the wording of the Adhan for prayers twice, and to pronounce the wording of the Iqama once except "Qad-qamat-is-salat."
Hadith - 4
Narrated Anas bin Malik: When the number of Muslims increased, they discussed the question as to how to know the time for the prayer by some familiar means. Some suggested that a fire be lit (at the time of the prayer) and others put forward the proposal to ring the bell.
Bilal was ordered to pronounce the wording of Adhan twice, and of the Iqama once only.
Hadith - 5
Narrated Abu Qilaba: Anas said, "Bilal was ordered to pronounce the wording of Adhan twice and of Iqama once only."
The sub narrator Isma`il said: I mentioned that to Aiyub and he added (to that), "Except Iqama (i.e. Qad-qamat-is-salat, which should be said twice)."
Hadith - 6
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "When the Adhan is pronounced, Satan takes to his heels and passes wind with noise during his flight in order not to hear the Adhan.
When the Adhan is completed he comes back, and again takes to his heels when the Iqama is pronounced, and after its completion he returns again till he whispers into the heart of the person (to divert his attention from his prayer) and makes him remember things which he does not recall to his mind before the prayer and that causes him to forget how much he has prayed."
Hadith - 7
Narrated `Abdur-Rahman: Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri told my father, "I see you liking sheep and the wilderness. So whenever you are with your sheep or in the wilderness and you want to pronounce Adhan for the prayer, raise your voice in doing so, for whoever hears the Adhan, whether a human being, a jinn or any other creature, will be a witness for you on the Day of Resurrection."
Abu Sa`id added, "I heard it (this narration) from Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)."
Hadith - 8
Narrated Humaid: Anas bin Malik said, "Whenever the Prophet (ﷺ) went out with us to fight (in Allah's cause) against any nation, he never allowed us to attack till morning, and he would wait and see: if he heard Adhan he would postpone the attack, and if he did not hear Adhan he would attack them."
Anas added, "We reached Khaibar at night, and in the morning when he did not hear the Adhan for the prayer, he (the Prophet) rode, and I rode behind Abi Talha, and my foot was touching that of the Prophet.
The inhabitants of Khaibar came out with their baskets and spades, and when they saw the Prophet (ﷺ) they shouted "Muhammad! By Allah, Muhammad and his army."
When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saw them, he said, "Allahu-Akbar! Allahu-Akbar! Khaibar is ruined. Whenever we approach a (hostile) nation (to fight), then evil will be the morning of those who have been warned."
Hadith - 9
Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Whenever you hear the Adhan, say what the Mu'adh-dhin is saying."
Hadith - 10
Narrated `Isa bin Talha: that he had heard Muawiya repeating the words of Adhan up to "And I testify that Muhammad is Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)."
Hadith - 11
Narrated Yahya as above, and added: "Some of my companions told me that Hisham had said, "When the Mu'adh-dhin said, "Come for the prayer," Muawiya said, "There is neither might nor any power except with Allah", and added, "We heard your Prophet saying the same."
Hadith - 12
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Whoever after listening to the Adhan says (what means), "O Allah! Lord of this perfect call (perfect by not ascribing partners to You) and of the regular prayer which is going to be established, give Muhammad the right of intercession and illustriousness, and resurrect him to the best and the highest place in Paradise that You promised him (of)", then my intercession for him will be allowed on the Day of Resurrection."
Hadith - 13
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If the people knew the reward for pronouncing the Adhan and for standing in the first row (in congregational prayers) and found no other way to get that except by drawing lots, they would draw lots, and if they knew the reward of the Zuhr prayer (in the early moments of its stated time) they would race for it (go early), and if they knew the reward of `Isha' and Fajr (morning) prayers in congregation, they would come to offer them even if they had to crawl."
Hadith - 14
Narrated `Abdullah bin Al-Harith: Once on a rainy muddy day, Ibn `Abbas delivered a sermon in our presence, and when the Mu'adhdhin pronounced the Adhan and said, "Come for the prayer", Ibn `Abbas ordered him to say "Pray at your homes."
The people began to look at each other surprisingly. Ibn `Abbas said, "It was done by one who was much better than I (i.e. the Prophet (ﷺ) or his Mu'adh-dhin), and it is a license."
Hadith - 15
Narrated Salim bin `Abdullah: My father said that Allah's Apostle said, "Bilal pronounces Adhan at night, so keep on eating and drinking (Suhur) till Ibn Um Maktum pronounces Adhan."
Salim added, "He was a blind man who would not pronounce the Adhan unless he was told that the day had dawned."
Hadith - 16
Narrated Hafsa: When the Mu'adh-dhin pronounced the Adhan for Fajr prayer and the dawn became evident, the Prophet ordered a two rak`at light prayer (Sunna) before the Iqama of the compulsory (congregational) prayer.
Hadith - 17
Narrated `Aisha: The Prophet (ﷺ) used to offer two light rak`at between the Adhan and the Iqama of the Fajr prayer.
Hadith - 18
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Bilal pronounces the Adhan at night, so keep on eating and drinking (Suhur) till Ibn Um Maktum pronounces the Adhan."
Hadith - 19
Narrated `Abdullah bin Mas`ud: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The Adhan pronounced by Bilal should not stop you from taking Suhur, for he pronounces the Adhan at night, so that the one offering the late night prayer (Tahajjud) from among you might hurry up, and the sleeping from among you might wake up. It does not mean that dawn or morning has started."
Then the Prophet pointed with his fingers and raised them up (towards the sky) and then lowered them (towards the earth) like this (Ibn Mas`ud imitated the gesture of the Prophet).
Az-Zuhri gestured with his two index fingers which he put on each other and then stretched them to the right and left. These gestures illustrate the way real dawn appears. It spreads left and right horizontally. The dawn that appears in the high sky and lowers down is not the real dawn.
Hadith - 20
Narrated `Aisha: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Bilal pronounces the Adhan at night, so eat and drink (Suhur) till Ibn Um Maktum pronounces the Adhan."
Hadith - 21
Narrated `Abdullah bin Mughaffal Al-Muzani: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said thrice, "There is a prayer between the two Adhans (Adhan and Iqama)," and added, "For the one who wants to pray."
Hadith - 22
Narrated Anas bin Malik: "When the Mu'adh-dhin pronounced the Adhan, some of the companions of the Prophet (ﷺ) would proceed to the pillars of the mosque (for the prayer) till the Prophet (ﷺ) arrived, and in this way they used to pray two rak`at before the Maghrib prayer. There used to be a little time between the Adhan and the Iqama."
Shu`ba said, "There used to be a very short interval between the two (Adhan and Iqama)."
Hadith - 23
Narrated `Aisha: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to pray two light rak`at before the morning (compulsory) prayer after the day dawned and the Mu'adh-dhin had finished his Adhan. He then would lie on his right side till the Mu'adh-dhin came to pronounce the Iqama.
Hadith - 24
Narrated `Abdullah bin Mughaffal: The prophet said, "There is a prayer between the two Adhans (Adhan and Iqama), there is a prayer between the two Adhans." And then, while saying it the third time, he added, "For the one who wants to (pray)."
Hadith - 25
Narrated Malik bin Huwairith: I came to the Prophet (ﷺ) with some men from my tribe and stayed with him for twenty nights. He was kind and merciful to us.
When he realized our longing for our families, he said to us, "Go back and stay with your families, and teach them the religion and offer the prayer, and one of you should pronounce the Adhan for the prayer when its time is due, and the oldest one amongst you should lead the prayer."
Hadith - 26
Narrated Abu Dharr: We were in the company of the Prophet (ﷺ) on a journey, and the Mu'adh-dhin wanted to pronounce the Adhan for the (Zuhr) prayer. The Prophet (ﷺ) said to him, "Let it become cooler."
Then he again wanted to pronounce the Adhan, but the Prophet said to him, "Let it become cooler."
The Mu'adh-dhin again wanted to pronounce the Adhan for the prayer, but the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Let it become cooler," till the shadows of the hillocks become equal to their sizes. The Prophet (ﷺ) added, "The severity of the heat is from the raging of Hell."
Hadith - 27
Narrated Malik bin Huwairith: Two men came to the Prophet (ﷺ) with the intention of a journey. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "When (both of) you set out, pronounce Adhan and then Iqama, and the oldest of you should lead the prayer."
Hadith - 28
Narrated Malik: We came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and stayed with him for twenty days and nights. We were all young and of about the same age. The Prophet (ﷺ) was very kind and merciful.
When he realized our longing for our families, he asked about our homes and the people there and we told him. Then he asked us to go back to our families and stay with them and teach them (the religion) and to order them to do good things. He also mentioned some other things which I have (remembered or) forgotten.
The Prophet (ﷺ) then added, "Pray as you have seen me praying, and when it is the time for the prayer, one of you should pronounce the Adhan and the oldest of you should lead the prayer."
Hadith - 29
Narrated Nafi`: Once in a cold night, Ibn `Umar pronounced the Adhan for the prayer at Dajnan (the name of a mountain) and then said, "Pray at your homes", and informed us that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to tell the Mu'adh-dhin to pronounce Adhan and say, "Pray at your homes" at the end of the Adhan on a rainy or a very cold night during the journey.
Hadith - 30
Narrated `Aun bin Abi Juhaifa: My father said, "I saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) at a place called Al-Abtah. Bilal came and informed him about the prayer and then came out with a short spear (or stick) and planted it in front of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) at Al-Abtah and pronounced the Iqama."
Hadith - 31
Narrated `Aun bin Abi Juhaifa: My father said, "I saw Bilal turning his face from side to side while pronouncing the Adhan for the prayer."
Hadith - 32
Narrated `Abdullah bin Abi Qatada: My father said, "While we were praying with the Prophet (ﷺ) he heard the noise of some people. After the prayer he said, 'What is the matter?' They replied 'We were hurrying for the prayer.'
He said, 'Do not make haste for the prayer, and whenever you come for the prayer, you should come with calmness, and pray whatever you get (with the people) and complete the rest which you have missed.'
Hadith - 33
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "When you hear the Iqama, proceed to offer the prayer with calmness and solemnity, and do not make haste. And pray whatever you are able to pray, and complete whatever you have missed."
Hadith - 34
Narrated `Abdullah bin Abi Qatada: My father said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, 'If the Iqama is pronounced, then do not stand for the prayer till you see me (in front of you).'"
Hadith - 35
Narrated `Abdullah bin Abi Qatada: My father said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, 'If the Iqama is pronounced, then do not stand for the prayer till you see me (in front of you) and do it calmly.'"
Hadith - 36
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) went out (of the mosque) when the Iqama had been pronounced and the rows straightened. The Prophet (ﷺ) stood at his Musalla (praying place) and we waited for the Prophet (ﷺ) to begin the prayer with Takbir.
He left and asked us to remain in our places. We kept on standing till the Prophet returned, and the water was trickling from his head for he had taken a bath (of Janaba).
Hadith - 37
Narrated Abu Huraira: Once Iqama was pronounced and the people had straightened the rows, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) went forward (to lead the prayer) but he was Junub, so he said, "Remain in your places."
And he went out, took a bath and returned with water trickling from his head. Then he led the prayer.
Hadith - 38
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah: On the day of Al-Khandaq (the trench), `Umar bin Al-Khattab went to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! By Allah, I could not pray (the `Asr) till the sun had set." `Umar told this to the Prophet at the time when a fasting person had done Iftar (taken his meals).
The Prophet (ﷺ) then went to Buthan and I was with him. He performed ablution and offered the `Asr prayer after the sun had set, and then the Maghrib prayer.
Hadith - 39
Narrated Anas: Once the Iqama was pronounced and the Prophet (ﷺ) was talking to a man (in a low voice) in a corner of the mosque, and he did not lead the prayer till (some of) the people had slept (dozed in a sitting posture).
Hadith - 40
Narrated Anas bin Malik: Once Iqama was pronounced, a man came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and detained him (from the prayer).
Hadith - 41
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "By Him in Whose Hand my soul is, I was about to order for collecting firewood (fuel) and then order someone to pronounce the Adhan for the prayer and then order someone to lead the prayer, then I would go from behind and burn the houses of men who did not present themselves for the (compulsory congregational) prayer.
By Him, in Whose Hands my soul is, if anyone of them had known that he would get a bone covered with good meat or two (small) pieces of meat present in between two ribs, he would have turned up for the `Isha' prayer."
Hadith - 42
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The prayer in congregation is twenty seven times superior to the prayer offered by a person alone."
Hadith - 43
Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The prayer in congregation is twenty five times superior to the prayer offered by a person alone."
Hadith - 44
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The reward of the prayer offered by a person in congregation is twenty five times greater than that of the prayer offered in one's house or in the market (alone).
And this is because if he performs ablution and does it perfectly and then proceeds to the mosque with the sole intention of praying, then for every step he takes towards the mosque, he is upgraded one degree in reward and his one sin is taken off (crossed out) from his accounts (of deeds).
When he offers his prayer, the angels keep on asking Allah's Blessings and Allah's forgiveness for him, as long as he is (staying) at his Musalla. They say, 'O Allah! Bestow Your blessings upon him, be Merciful and kind to him.'
And one is regarded in prayer as long as one is waiting for the prayer."
Hadith - 45
Narrated Abu Salama bin `Abdur Rahman: Abu Huraira said, "I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, 'The reward of a prayer in congregation is twenty five times greater than that of a prayer offered by a person alone. The angels of the night and the angels of the day gather at the time of Fajr prayer.'"
Abu Huraira then added, "Recite the Holy Book if you wish, for "Indeed, the recitation of the Qur'an in the early dawn (Fajr prayer) is ever witnessed." (Surah 17: Ayah 78)
Hadith - 46
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar: The reward of the congregational prayer is twenty seven times greater (than that of the prayer offered by a person alone).
Hadith - 47
Narrated Salim: I heard Um Ad-Darda' saying, "Abu Ad-Darda' entered the house in an angry mood. I said to him, 'What makes you angry?'
He replied, 'By Allah! I do not find the followers of Muhammad doing those good things (which they used to do before), except the offering of congregational prayer." (This happened in the last days of Abu Ad-Darda' during the rule of `Uthman).
Hadith - 48
Narrated Abu Musa: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The people who get tremendous reward for the prayer are those who are farthest away (from the mosque), and then those who are next farthest, and so on. Similarly one who waits to pray with the Imam has greater reward than one who prays and goes to bed."
Hadith - 49
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "While a man was going on a way, he saw a thorny branch and removed it from the way, and Allah became pleased by his action and forgave him for that."
Then the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Five are martyrs: One who dies of plague, one who dies of an abdominal disease, one who dies of drowning, one who is buried alive (and) dies and one who is killed in Allah's cause."
The Prophet (ﷺ) further said, "If the people knew the reward for pronouncing the Adhan and for standing in the first row (in the congregational prayer) and found no other way to get it except by drawing lots, they would do so, and if they knew the reward of offering the Zuhr prayer early (in its stated time) they would race for it, and if they knew the reward for `Isha' and Fajr prayers in congregation, they would attend them even if they were to crawl."
Hadith - 50
Narrated Humaid: Anas said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'O Bani Salima! Don't you think that for every step of yours (that you take towards the mosque) there is a reward (while coming for prayer)?"
Mujahid said: "Regarding Allah's Statement: "We record that which they have sent before (them), and their traces" (Surah 36: Ayah 12). 'Their traces' means 'their steps.'"
And Anas said that the people of Bani Salima wanted to shift to a place near the Prophet (ﷺ) but Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) disliked the idea of leaving their houses uninhabited and said, "Don't you think that you will get the reward for your footprints." Mujahid said, "Their foot prints mean their foot steps and their going on foot."
Hadith - 51
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "No prayer is heavier upon the hypocrites than the Fajr and the `Isha' prayers, and if they knew what is in them (in reward), they would have attended them, even if (it was) crawling.
Certainly, I felt the urge to order the Mu'adh-dhin (call-maker) so that he would pronounce Iqama, then order a man to lead the people (in prayer), then take a flame of fire so that I burn (the houses) upon those who had not left for the prayer yet."
Hadith - 52
Narrated Malik bin Huwairith: Prophet said (to two persons), "Whenever the prayer time becomes due, you should pronounce Adhan and then Iqama, and the older of you should lead the prayer."
Hadith - 53
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The angels keep on asking for Allah's Blessing and Forgiveness for anyone of you, as long as he is at his Musalla (praying place) and does not do Hadath (passes wind). The angels say, 'O Allah! Forgive him and be Merciful to him.'
Each one of you is in the prayer as long as he is waiting for the prayer and nothing but the prayer detains him from going to his family."
Hadith - 54
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Allah will give shade to seven on the Day when there will be no shade but His.
(These seven persons are) a just ruler, a youth who has been brought up in the worship of Allah (i.e. worships Allah sincerely from childhood), a man whose heart is attached to the mosques (i.e. to pray the compulsory prayers in the mosque in congregation), two persons who love each other only for Allah's sake and they meet and part in Allah's cause only, a man who refuses the call of a charming woman of noble birth for illicit intercourse with her and says: I am afraid of Allah, a man who gives charitable gifts so secretly that his left hand does not know what his right hand has given (i.e. nobody knows how much he has given in charity), and a person who remembers Allah in seclusion and his eyes are then flooded with tears."
Hadith - 55
Narrated Humaid: Anas was asked, "Did Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) wear a ring?" He said, "Yes. Once he delayed the `Isha' prayer till midnight and after the prayer, he faced us and said, 'The people prayed and have slept, and you remained in prayer as long as you waited for it.'"
Anas added, "As if I were just now observing the glitter of his ring."
Hadith - 56
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Allah will prepare for him who goes to the mosque (every) morning and in the afternoon (for the congregational prayer) an honorable place in Paradise with good hospitality for (what he has done) every morning and afternoon goings."