Hadith - 57
Narrated Malik Ibn Buhaina: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) passed by a man praying two rak`at after the Iqama (had been pronounced). When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) completed the prayer, the people gathered around him (the Prophet) or that man, and Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said to him (protesting), "Are there four rak`at in Fajr prayer? Are there four rak`at in Fajr prayer?"
Hadith - 58
Narrated Al-Aswad: "We were with `Aisha discussing the regularity of offering the prayer and dignifying it. She said, 'When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) fell sick with the fatal illness, and when the time of prayer became due and Adhan was pronounced, he said, 'Tell Abu Bakr to lead the people in prayer.'
He was told that Abu Bakr was a softhearted man and would not be able to lead the prayer in his place. The Prophet (ﷺ) gave the same order again, but he was given the same reply. He gave the order for the third time and said, 'You (women) are the companions of Joseph. Tell Abu Bakr to lead the prayer.'
So Abu Bakr came out to lead the prayer. In the meantime, the condition of the Prophet (ﷺ) improved a bit and he came out with the help of two men, one on each side. As if I was observing his legs dragging on the ground owing to the disease.
Abu Bakr wanted to retreat, but the Prophet (ﷺ) beckoned him to remain at his place, and the Prophet (ﷺ) was brought till he sat beside Abu Bakr." 
Al-A`mash was asked, "Was the Prophet (ﷺ) praying and Abu Bakr following him, and were the people following Abu Bakr in that prayer?" Al-A`mash replied in the affirmative with a nod of his head.
Abu Muawiya said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) was sitting on the left side of Abu Bakr who was praying while standing."
Hadith - 59
Narrated `Aisha: "When the Prophet (ﷺ) became seriously ill and his disease became aggravated, he asked for permission from his wives to be nursed in my house and he was allowed. He came out with the help of two men and his legs were dragging on the ground. He was between Al-`Abbas and another man."
'Ubaidullah said, "I told Ibn `Abbas what `Aisha had narrated, and he said, 'Do you know who was the (second) man whose name `Aisha did not mention?'" I said, 'No.' Ibn `Abbas said, 'He was `Ali Ibn Abi Talib.'"
Hadith - 60
Narrated Nafi`: Once on a very cold and stormy night, Ibn `Umar pronounced the Adhan for the prayer and then said, "Pray in your homes." He (Ibn `Umar) added, "On very cold and rainy nights, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to order the Mu'adh-dhin to say, 'Pray in your homes.'"
Hadith - 61
Narrated Mahmud bin Rabi` Al-Ansari: `Itban bin Malik used to lead his people (tribe) in prayer and was a blind man, he said to Allah's Apostle, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! At times it is dark and flood water is flowing (in the valley) and I am a blind man, so please pray at a place in my house so that I can take it as a Musalla (praying place)."
So Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) went to his house and said, "Where do you like me to pray?" 'Itban pointed to a place in his house and Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), offered the prayer there.
Hadith - 62
Narrated `Abdullah bin Al-Harith: Ibn `Abbas addressed us on a (rainy and) muddy day, and when the Mu'adh-dhin said, "Come for the prayer", Ibn `Abbas ordered him to say, "Pray in your homes."
The people began to look at one another with surprise as if they did not like it. Ibn `Abbas said, "It seems that you thought ill of it, but no doubt it was done by one who was better than I (i.e. the Prophet). It (the prayer) is a strict order and I disliked to bring you out."
Ibn `Abbas narrated the same as above but he said, "I did not like you to make you sinful (in refraining from coming to the mosque) and to come (to the mosque) covered with mud up to the knees."
Hadith - 63
Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri: A cloud came and it rained till the roof started leaking, and in those days the roof used to be of the branches of date-palms. Iqama was pronounced and I saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) prostrating in water and mud, and even I saw the mark of mud on his forehead.
Hadith - 64
Narrated Anas bin Seereen: I heard Anas saying, "A man from Ansar said to the Prophet, 'I cannot pray with you (in congregation).' He was a very fat man and he prepared a meal for the Prophet (ﷺ) and invited him to his house. He spread out a mat for the Prophet, and washed one of its sides with water, and the Prophet (ﷺ) prayed two rak`at on it."
A man from the family of Al-Jarood asked, "Did the Prophet (ﷺ) used to pray the Duha (forenoon) prayer?" Anas said, "I did not see him praying the Duha prayer except on that day."
Hadith - 65
Narrated `Aisha: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If supper is served and Iqama is pronounced, one should start with the supper."
Hadith - 66
Narrated Anas bin Malik: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If the supper is served, start having it before praying the Maghrib prayer, and do not be hasty in finishing it."
Hadith - 67
Narrated Nafi`: Ibn `Umar said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, 'If the supper is served for anyone of you and the Iqama is pronounced, start with the supper and don't be in haste (and carry on eating) till you finish it.'"
If food was served for Ibn `Umar and Iqama was pronounced, he never came to the prayer till he finished it (i.e. food) in spite of the fact that he heard the recitation (of the Qur'an) by the Imam (in the prayer).
Hadith - 68
Narrated Ibn `Umar: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If anyone of you is having his meals, he should not hurry up till he is satisfied, even if the prayer has been started."
Hadith - 69
Narrated Ja`far bin `Amr bin Umaiya: My father said, "I saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) eating a piece of meat from the shoulder of a sheep and he was called for the prayer. He stood up, put down the knife and prayed, but did not perform ablution."
Hadith - 70
Narrated Al-Aswad: That he asked `Aisha "What did the Prophet (ﷺ) use to do in his house?"
She replied, "He used to keep himself busy serving his family, and when it was the time for prayer he would go for it."
Hadith - 71
Narrated Aiyub: Abu Qilaba said, "Malik bin Huwairith came to this Mosque of ours and said, 'I pray in front of you, and my aim is not to lead the prayer but to show you the way in which the Prophet (ﷺ) used to pray.'"
I asked Abu Qilaba, "How did he use to pray?' " He replied, "(The Prophet (ﷺ) used to pray) like this Sheikh of ours, and the Sheikh used to sit for a while after the prostration, before getting up after the first rak`a."
Hadith - 72
Narrated Abu Musa: The Prophet (ﷺ) became sick and when his disease became aggravated, he said, "Tell Abu Bakr to lead the prayer." `Aisha said, "He is a softhearted man and would not be able to lead the prayer in your place."
The Prophet (ﷺ) said again, "Tell Abu Bakr to lead the people in prayer." She repeated the same reply, but he said, "Tell Abu Bakr to lead the people in prayer. You are the companions of Joseph."
So the messenger went to Abu Bakr (with that order) and he led the people in prayer in the lifetime of the Prophet.
Hadith - 73
Narrated `Aisha (the mother of the believers): Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) in his illness said, "Tell Abu Bakr to lead the people in prayer." I said to him, "If Abu Bakr stands in your place, the people would not hear him owing to his (excessive) weeping. So please order `Umar to lead the prayer."
`Aisha added: I said to Hafsa, "Say to him: If Abu Bakr should lead the people in the prayer in your place, the people would not be able to hear him owing to his weeping; so please, order `Umar to lead the prayer."
Hafsa did so, but Allah's Apostle said, "Keep quiet! You are verily the Companions of Joseph. Tell Abu Bakr to lead the people in the prayer. " Hafsa said to `Aisha, "I never got anything good from you."
Hadith - 74
Narrated Az-Zuhri: Anas bin Malik Al-Ansari told me, "Abu Bakr used to lead the people in prayer during the fatal illness of the Prophet (ﷺ) till it was Monday.
When the people aligned (in rows) for the prayer, the Prophet (ﷺ) lifted the curtain of his house and started looking at us and was standing at that time. His face was (glittering) like a page of the Qur'an and he smiled cheerfully.
We were about to be put to trial for the pleasure of seeing the Prophet, Abu Bakr retreated to join the row as he thought that the Prophet (ﷺ) would lead the prayer. The Prophet (ﷺ) beckoned us to complete the prayer and he let the curtain fall. On the same day he died."
Hadith - 75
Narrated Anas: The Prophet (ﷺ) did not come out for three days. The people stood for the prayer and Abu Bakr went ahead to lead the prayer.
(In the meantime) the Prophet (ﷺ) caught hold of the curtain and lifted it. When the face of the Prophet (ﷺ) appeared, we had never seen a scene more pleasing than the face of the Prophet (ﷺ) as it appeared then.
The Prophet (ﷺ) beckoned to Abu Bakr to lead the people in the prayer and then let the curtain fall. We did not see him (again) till he died.
Hadith - 76
Narrated Hamza bin `Abdullah: My father said, "When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) became seriously ill, he was told about the prayer. He said, 'Tell Abu Bakr to lead the people in the prayer.' `Aisha said, "Abu Bakr is a softhearted man, and he would be overpowered by his weeping if he recited the Qur'an."
He said to them, 'Tell him (Abu Bakr) to lead the prayer.' The same reply was given to him. He said again, 'Tell him to lead the prayer. You (women) are the companions of Joseph.'"
Hadith - 77
Narrated Hisham ibn `Urwa's father: `Aisha said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) ordered Abu Bakr to lead the people in the prayer during his illness, and so he led them in prayer."
`Urwa, a sub-narrator, added, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) felt a bit relieved and came out, and Abu Bakr was leading the people. When Abu Bakr saw the Prophet (ﷺ) he retreated, but the Prophet beckoned him to remain there. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) sat beside Abu Bakr.
Abu Bakr was following the prayer of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and the people were following the prayer of Abu Bakr.
Hadith - 78
Narrated Sahl bin Sa`d As-Sa`idi: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) went to establish peace among Bani `Amr bin `Auf. In the meantime the time of prayer was due and the Mu'adh-dhin went to Abu Bakr and said, "Will you lead the prayer, so that I may pronounce the Iqama?" Abu Bakr replied in the affirmative and led the prayer.
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) came while the people were still praying, and he entered the rows of the praying people till he stood in the first row. The people clapped their hands. Abu Bakr never glanced sideways in his prayer, but when the people continued clapping, Abu Bakr looked and saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ).
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) beckoned him to stay at his place. Abu Bakr raised his hands and thanked Allah for that order of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and then he retreated till he reached the first row. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) went forward and led the prayer.
When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) finished the prayer, he said, "O Abu Bakr! What prevented you from staying when I ordered you to do so?" Abu Bakr replied, "How can Ibn Abi Quhafa (Abu Bakr) dare to lead the prayer in the presence of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)?"
Then Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Why did you clap so much? If something happens to anyone during his prayer, he should say Subhan Allah. If he says so he will be attended to, for clapping is for women."
Hadith - 79
Narrated Malik bin Huwairith: We went to the Prophet (ﷺ) and we were all young men, and stayed with him for about twenty nights. The Prophet (ﷺ) was very merciful.
He said, "When you return home, impart religious teachings to your families and tell them to offer perfectly such-and-such a prayer at such-and-such a time, and such-and-such a prayer at such-and-such a time. And at the time of the prayer, one of you should pronounce the Adhan and the oldest of you should lead the prayer."
Hadith - 80
Narrated `Itban bin Malik Al-Ansari: The Prophet (came to my house and) asked permission for entering and I allowed him. He asked, "Where do you like me to pray in your house?" I pointed to a place which I liked.
He stood up for prayer and we aligned behind him, and he finished the prayer with Taslim and we did the same.
Hadith - 81
Narrated 'Ubaidullah Ibn `Abdullah bin `Utba: I went to `Aisha and asked her to describe to me the illness of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). `Aisha said, "Yes. The Prophet became seriously ill and asked whether the people had prayed. We replied, 'No. O Allah's Apostle! They are waiting for you.'
He added, 'Put water for me in a trough." `Aisha added, "We did so. He took a bath and tried to get up, but fainted. When he recovered, he again asked whether the people had prayed. We said, 'No, they are waiting for you, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ).'
He again said, 'Put water in a trough for me.' He sat down and took a bath and tried to get up, but fainted again. Then he recovered and said, 'Have the people prayed?' We replied, 'No, they are waiting for you, O Allah's Apostle.'
He said, 'Put water for me in the trough.' Then he sat down and washed himself and tried to get up, but he fainted. When he recovered, he asked, 'Have the people prayed?' We said, 'No, they are waiting for you, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)!'
The people were in the mosque waiting for the Prophet (ﷺ) for the `Isha prayer. The Prophet (ﷺ) sent for Abu Bakr to lead the people in the prayer. The messenger went to Abu Bakr and said: "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) orders you to lead the people in the prayer." Abu Bakr was a softhearted man, so he asked `Umar to lead the prayer but `Umar replied, 'You are more rightful.' So Abu Bakr led the prayer in those days.
When the Prophet (ﷺ) felt a bit better, he came out for the Zuhr prayer with the help of two persons, one of whom was Al-`Abbas, while Abu Bakr was leading the people in the prayer. When Abu Bakr saw him, he wanted to retreat, but the Prophet (ﷺ) beckoned him not to do so and asked them to make him sit beside Abu Bakr, and they did so.
Abu Bakr was following the Prophet (in the prayer) and the people were following Abu Bakr. The Prophet (prayed) sitting."
'Ubaidullah added "I went to `Abdullah bin `Abbas and asked him, 'Shall I tell you what Aisha has told me about the fatal illness of the Prophet?' Ibn `Abbas said, 'Go ahead.'
I told him her narration and he did not deny anything of it, but asked whether `Aisha told me the name of the second person (who helped the Prophet (ﷺ)) along with Al-Abbas. I said, 'No.' He said, 'He was `Ali (Ibn Abi Talib).'"
Hadith - 82
Narrated Aisha (the mother of the believers): Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) during his illness prayed at his house while sitting, whereas some people prayed behind him standing. The Prophet (ﷺ) beckoned them to sit down.
On completion of the prayer, he said, 'The Imam is to be followed: bow when he bows, raise up your heads (stand erect) when he raises his head, and when he says (what means) "Allah heard those who sent praises to Him", say then (what means) "O our Lord! All the praises are for You", and if he prays sitting then pray sitting.'
Hadith - 83
Narrated Anas bin Malik: Once Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) rode a horse and fell down and the right side (of his body) was injured. He offered one of the prayers while sitting, and we also prayed behind him sitting.
When he completed the prayer, he said, "The Imam is to be followed. Pray standing if he prays standing, and bow when he bows; rise when he rises; and if he says, (what means) "Allah heard those who sent praises to Him", say then, (what means) "O our Lord! All the praises are for You", and pray standing if he prays standing, and pray sitting (all of you) if he prays sitting."
Humaid said: The saying of the Prophet (ﷺ) "Pray sitting, if he (Imam) prays sitting" was said in his former illness (during his early life) but the Prophet (ﷺ) prayed sitting afterwards (in the last illness) and the people were praying standing behind him, and the Prophet (ﷺ) did not order them to sit. We should follow the latest actions of the Prophet.
Hadith - 84
Narrated Al-Bara (and he was not a liar): When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said (what means), "Allah heard those who sent praises to Him", none of us bent his back (for prostration) till the Prophet (ﷺ) prostrated, and then we would prostrate after him.
Hadith - 85
Narrated Abu 'Is-haq: As above.
Hadith - 86
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Isn't he who raises his head before the Imam afraid that Allah may transform his head into that of a donkey, or his figure (face) into that of a donkey?"
Hadith - 87
Narrated Ibn `Umar: When the earliest emigrants came to Al-`Usba, a place in Quba', before the arrival of the Prophet - Salim, the slave of Abu Hudhaifa, who knew the Qur'an more than the others used to lead them in prayer.
Hadith - 88
Narrated Anas: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Listen and obey (your chief) even if an Ethiopian whose head is like a raisin were made your chief."
Hadith - 89
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If the Imam leads the prayer correctly, then he and you will receive the rewards, but if he makes a mistake (in the prayer) then you will receive the reward for the prayer and the sin will be his."
Hadith - 90
Narrated 'Ubaid-Ullah bin Adi bin Khiyar: I went to 'Uthman bin Affan while he was besieged, and said to him, "You are the chief of all Muslims in general, and you see what has befallen you. We are led in the Salat (prayer) by a leader of Al-Fitan (trials and afflictions etc) and we are afraid of being sinful in following him."
'Uthman said, "As-Salat (the prayers) is the best of all deeds, so when the people do good deeds, do the same with them, and when they do bad deeds, avoid those bad deeds."
Az-Zuhri said, "In our opinion one should not offer Salat behind an effeminate person unless there is no alternative."
Hadith - 91
Narrated Anas bin Malik: The Prophet (ﷺ) said to Abu-Dhar, "Listen and obey (your chief) even if he is an Ethiopian with a head like a raisin."
Hadith - 92
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: Once I passed the night in the house of my aunt Maimuna. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) offered the `Isha' prayer, and then came to the house and offered four rak`at and slept.
Later on, he woke up and stood for the prayer, and I stood on his left side. He drew me to his right and prayed five rak`at and then two. He then slept till I heard him snoring (or heard his breath sounds). Afterwards he went out for the morning prayer.
Hadith - 93
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: One night I slept at the house of (my aunt) Maimuna, and the Prophet (ﷺ) was there on that night.
He performed ablution and stood up for the prayer. I joined him and stood on his left side, but he drew me to his right and prayed thirteen rak`at, and then slept till I heard his breath sounds. And whenever he slept, he used to breathe with audible sounds.
The Mu'adh-dhin came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and he went out and prayed the morning prayer without repeating the ablution.
Hadith - 94
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: Once I passed the night in the house of my aunt Maimuna. The Prophet (ﷺ) stood for the night prayer, and I joined him and stood on his left side, but he drew me to his right by holding me by the head.
Hadith - 95
Narrated Mu`adh bin Jabal: I used to pray the `Isha prayer with the Prophet (ﷺ) and then go to lead my people in the prayer.
Hadith - 96
Narrated `Amr: Jabir bin `Abdullah said, "Mu`adh bin Jabal used to pray with the Prophet (ﷺ) and then go to lead his people in prayer. Once he led the `Isha' prayer and recited Surah Al-Baqarah.
Somebody left the prayer and Mu`adh criticized him. The news reached the Prophet (ﷺ) and he said to Mu`adh, 'You are putting the people to trial,' and repeated it thrice (or said something similar) and ordered him to recite two medium Surahs of Mufassal." (`Amr said that he had forgotten the names of those Surahs).
Hadith - 97
Narrated Abu Mas`ud: A man came and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! By Allah, I keep away from the morning prayer only because so-and-so prolongs the prayer when he leads us in it."
The narrator said, "I never saw Allah's Apostle more furious in giving advice than he was at that time. He then said, "Some of you make people dislike good deeds (the prayer). So whoever among you leads the people in prayer should shorten it, because among them are the weak, the old and the needy."
Hadith - 98
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If anyone of you leads the people in the prayer, he should shorten it, for amongst them are the weak, the sick and the old; and if anyone among you prays alone, then he may prolong (the prayer) as much as he wishes."
Hadith - 99
Narrated Abu Mas`ud: A man came and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! I keep away from the morning prayer because so-and-so (Imam) prolongs it too much." 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) became furious, and I had never seen him more furious than he was on that day. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O people! Some of you make others dislike the prayer, so whoever becomes an Imam, he should shorten the prayer, as behind him are the weak, the old and the needy."
Hadith - 100
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah Al-Ansari: Once a man was driving two Nadihas (camels used for agricultural purposes) and night had fallen. He found Mu`adh praying, so he made his camel kneel and joined Mu`adh in the prayer.
The latter recited Surah Al-Baqarah or Surah An-Nisa, (so) the man left the prayer and went away. When he came to know that Mu`adh had criticized him, he went to the Prophet, and complained against Mu`adh.
The Prophet said thrice, "O Mu`adh! Are you putting the people to trial? It would have been better if you had recited Surah Al-A`la (Surah 87), Surah Duha (Surah 91), or Surah Al-Layl (Surah 92), for the old, the weak and the needy pray behind you."
Jabir said that Mu`adh recited Surah Al-Baqarah in the `Isha' prayer.
Hadith - 101
Narrated Anas: The Prophet (ﷺ) used to pray a short prayer (in congregation), but used to offer it in a perfect manner.
Hadith - 102
Narrated `Abdullah bin 'Abi Qatada: My father said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'When I stand for prayer, I intend to prolong it, but on hearing the cries of a child, I cut it short, as I dislike to trouble the child's mother.'"
Hadith - 103
Narrated Anas bin Malik: I never prayed behind any Imam a prayer lighter and more perfect than that behind the Prophet (ﷺ), and he used to cut short the prayer whenever he heard the cries of a child lest he should put the child's mother to trial.
Hadith - 104
Narrated Anas bin Malik: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "When I start the prayer I intend to prolong it, but on hearing the cries of a child, I cut short the prayer because I know that the cries of the child will incite its mother's passions."
Hadith - 105
Narrated Anas bin Malik: The Prophet said, "Whenever I start the prayer I intend to prolong it, but on hearing the cries of a child, I cut short the prayer because I know that the cries of the child will incite its mother's passions."
Hadith - 106
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah: Mu`adh used to pray with the Prophet (ﷺ) and then go and lead his people (tribe) in the prayer.
Hadith - 107
Narrated `Aisha: When the Prophet became ill in his fatal illness, someone came to inform him about the prayer, and the Prophet (ﷺ) told him to tell Abu Bakr to lead the people in the prayer.
I said, "Abu Bakr is a softhearted man and if he stands for the prayer in your place, he would weep and would not be able to recite the Qur'an."
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Tell Abu Bakr to lead the prayer." I said the same as before. He (repeated the same order and) on the third or the fourth time he said, "You are the companions of Joseph. Tell Abu Bakr to lead the prayer."
So Abu Bakr led the prayer, and meanwhile the Prophet (ﷺ) felt better and came out with the help of two men; as if I see him just now dragging his feet on the ground.
When Abu Bakr saw him, he tried to retreat, but the Prophet (ﷺ) beckoned him to carry on. Abu Bakr retreated a bit and the Prophet (ﷺ) sat on his (left) side. Abu Bakr was repeating the Takbir (Allahu Akbar) of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) for the people to hear.
Hadith - 108
Narrated `Aisha: When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) became seriously ill, Bilal came to him for the prayer.
He said, "Tell Abu Bakr to lead the people in the prayer." I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Abu Bakr is a softhearted man, and if he stands in your place, he would not be able to make the people hear him. Will you order `Umar (to lead the prayer)?"
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Tell Abu Bakr to lead the people in the prayer." Then I said to Hafsa, "Tell him, Abu Bakr is a softhearted man, and if he stands in his place, he would not be able to make the people hear him. Would you order `Umar to lead the prayer?'" Hafsa did so.
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Verily you are the companions of Joseph. Tell Abu Bakr to lead the people in the prayer." So Abu Bakr stood for the prayer.
In the meantime, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) felt better and came out with the help of two persons, and both of his legs were dragging on the ground till he entered the mosque.
When Abu Bakr heard him coming, he tried to retreat but Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) beckoned him to carry on. The Prophet (ﷺ) sat on his left side. Abu Bakr was praying while standing and Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was leading the prayer while sitting. Abu Bakr was following the Prophet (ﷺ) and the people were following Abu Bakr (in the prayer).
Hadith - 109
Narrated Abu Huraira: Once Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) prayed two rak`at (instead of four) and finished his prayer. Dhul-Yadain asked him whether the prayer had been reduced or whether he had forgotten.
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) asked the people whether Dhul-Yadain was telling the truth. The people replied in the affirmative.
Then Allah's Apostle stood up, offered the remaining two rak`at and then finished his prayer with Taslim, and then said, "Allahu Akbar." He followed it with two prostrations like ordinary prostrations or a bit longer.
Hadith - 110
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) prayed two rak`at of Zuhr prayer (instead of four) and he was told that he had prayed two rak`at only. Then he prayed two more rak`at and finished them with the Taslim followed by two prostrations.
Hadith - 111
Narrated `Aisha (the mother of the faithful believers): Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) in his last illness said, "Tell Abu Bakr to lead the people in the prayer." I said, "If Abu Bakr stood in your place, he would not be able to make the people hear him owing to his weeping. So please order `Umar to lead the prayer."
He said, "Tell Abu Bakr to lead the people in the prayer." I said to Hafsa, "Say to him: Abu Bakr is a softhearted man, and if he stood in your place he would not be able to make the people hear him owing to his weeping. So order `Umar to lead the people in the prayer."
Hafsa did so, but Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Keep quiet. Verily you are the companions of (Prophet) Joseph. Tell Abu Bakr to lead the people in the prayer." Hafsa said to me, "I never got any good from you."
Hadith - 112
Narrated An-Nu`man bin 'Bashir: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Straighten your rows or Allah will alter your faces."
Hadith - 113
Narrated Anas: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Straighten your rows, for I see you from behind my back."
Hadith - 114
Narrated Anas bin Malik: Once the Iqama was pronounced and Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) faced us and said, "Straighten your rows and stand closer together, for I see you from behind my back."
Hadith - 115
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Martyrs are those who die because of drowning, plague, an abdominal disease, or of being buried alive by a falling building."
And then he added, "If the people knew the reward for the Zuhr prayer in its early time, they would race for it. If they knew the reward for the `Isha' and the Fajr prayers in congregation, they would join them even if they had to crawl. If they knew the reward for the first row, they would draw lots for it."
Hadith - 116
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The Imam is (appointed) to be followed. So do not differ from him, bow when he bows, and say (what means), "O our Lord! All the praises are for You" if he says (what means), "Allah heard those who sent praises to Him"; and if he prostrates, prostrate (after him), and if he prays sitting, pray sitting all together, and straighten the rows for the prayer, as the straightening of the rows is amongst those things which make your prayer a correct and perfect one."
Hadith - 117
Narrated Anas bin Malik: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Straighten your rows, as the straightening of rows is essential for a perfect and correct prayer."
Hadith - 118
Narrated Anas bin Malik: I arrived at Medina and was asked whether I found any change since the days of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). I said, "I have not found any change, except that you do not stand in alignment in your prayers."
Hadith - 119
Narrated Anas bin Malik: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Straighten your rows for I see you from behind my back." Anas added, "Everyone of us used to put his shoulder with the shoulder of his companion and his foot with the foot of his companion."
Hadith - 120
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: I prayed with the Prophet (ﷺ) one night and stood on his left side. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) caught hold of my head from behind and drew me to his right, and then offered the prayer and slept. Later the Mu'adh-dhin came and the Prophet (ﷺ) stood up for prayer without performing ablution.
Hadith - 121
Narrated Anas bin Malik: One night an orphan and I offered the prayers behind the Prophet (ﷺ) in my house and my mother (Um Sulaim) was standing behind us (by herself forming a row).
Hadith - 122
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: One night I stood to the left of the Prophet (ﷺ) in the prayer but he caught hold of me by the hand or by the shoulder (arm) till he made me stand on his right and beckoned with his hand (for me) to go from behind (him).
Hadith - 123
Narrated `Aisha: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to pray in his room at night. As the wall of the room was low, the people saw him and some of them stood up to follow him in the prayer. In the morning they spread the news.
The following night the Prophet (ﷺ) stood for the prayer and the people followed him. This went on for two or three nights.
Thereupon Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) did not stand for the prayer the following night, and did not come out. In the morning, the people asked him about it. He replied that he was afraid that the night prayer might become compulsory.
Hadith - 124
Narrated `Aisha: The Prophet (ﷺ) had a mat which he used to spread during the day and use as a curtain at night. So a number of people gathered at night facing it and prayed behind him.
Hadith - 125
Narrated Zaid bin Thabit: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) made a small room in the month of Ramadan (Sa`id said, "I think that Zaid bin Thabit said that it was made of a mat"), and he prayed there for a few nights, and so some of his companions prayed behind him.
When he came to know about it, he kept on sitting. In the morning, he went out to them and said, "I have seen and understood what you did. You should pray in your houses, for the best prayer of a person is that which he prays in his house except the compulsory prayers."