Hadith - 126
Narrated Anas bin Malik Al-Ansari: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) rode a horse and fell down, and the right side of his body was injured. On that day he prayed one of the prayers sitting and we also prayed behind him sitting.
When the Prophet (ﷺ) finished the prayer with Taslim, he said, "The Imam is to be followed, and if he prays standing then pray standing, and bow when he bows, and raise your heads when he raises his head; prostrate when he prostrates; and if he says "Sami` Allahu liman hamidah", you should say, "Rabbana wa lakal hamd."
Hadith - 127
Narrated Anas bin Malik: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) fell from a horse and got injured so he led the prayer sitting and we also prayed sitting. When he completed the prayer he said, "The Imam is to be followed; if he says Takbir then say Takbir, bow if he bows; raise your heads when he raises his head, when he says (what means), "Allah heard those who sent praises to Him", say (what means), "O our Lord! All the praises are for You", and prostrate when he prostrates.
Hadith - 128
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The Imam is to be followed. Say the Takbir when he says it; bow if he bows; if he says (what means), "Allah heard those who sent praises to Him", say (what means), "O our Lord! All the praises are for You", prostrate if he prostrates, and pray sitting altogether if he prays sitting."
Hadith - 129
Narrated Salim bin `Abdullah: My father said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to raise both his hands up to the level of his shoulders when opening the prayer; and on saying the Takbir for bowing. And on raising his head from bowing he used to do the same, and then say (what means), "Allah heard those who sent praises to Him. O our Lord! All the praises are for You". And he did not do that (i.e. raising his hands) in prostrations.
Hadith - 130
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar: I saw that whenever Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) stood for the prayer, he used to raise both his hands up to the shoulders, and used to do the same on saying the Takbir for bowing and on raising his head from it, and used to say (what means), "Allah heard those who sent praises to Him.". But he did not do that (i.e. raising his hands) in prostrations.
Hadith - 131
Narrated Abu Qilaba: I saw Malik bin Huwairith saying Takbir and raising both his hands (on starting the prayers) and raising his hands on bowing and also on raising his head after bowing. Malik bin Huwairith said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) did the same."
Hadith - 132
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar: I saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) opening the prayer with the Takbir and raising his hands to the level of his shoulders at the time of saying the Takbir, and on saying the Takbir for bowing he did the same; and when he said (what means), "Allah heard those who sent praises to Him", he did the same, and then said (what means), "O our Lord! All the praises are for You." But he did not do the same on prostrating and on lifting the head from it.
Hadith - 133
Narrated Nafi`: Whenever Ibn `Umar started the prayer with Takbir, he used to raise his hands, whenever he bowed, he used to raise his hands (before bowing) and also used to raise his hands on saying (what means), "Allah heard those who sent praises to Him", and he used to do the same on rising from the second rak`a (for the 3rd rak`a). Ibn `Umar said: "The Prophet (ﷺ) used to do the same."
Hadith - 134
Narrated Sahl bin Sa`d: The people were ordered to place the right hand on the left forearm in the prayer. Abu Hazim said, "I knew that the order was from the Prophet (ﷺ)."
Hadith - 135
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "You see me facing the Qibla; but, by Allah, nothing is hidden from me regarding your bowing and submissiveness and I see you from behind my back."
Hadith - 136
Narrated Anas bin Malik: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Perform the bowing and the prostrations properly. By Allah, I see you from behind me (or from behind my back) when you bow or prostrate."
Hadith - 137
Narrated Anas bin Malik: The Prophet, Abu Bakr and `Umar used to start the prayer with "All praise is but to Allah, Lord of the Worlds."
Hadith - 138
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to keep silent between the Takbir and the recitation of Qur'an, and that interval of silence used to be a short one. I said to the Prophet (ﷺ), "May my parents be sacrificed for you! What do you say in the pause between Takbir and recitation?"
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I say (what means), 'O Allah! Set me apart from my sins (faults) as the East and West are set apart from each other, and clean me from sins as a white garment is cleaned of dirt (after thorough washing). O Allah! Wash off my sins with water, snow and hail.'"
Hadith - 139
Narrated Asma' bint Abi Bakr: The Prophet (ﷺ) once offered the eclipse prayer. He stood for a long time and then did a prolonged bowing. He stood up straight again and kept on standing for a long time, then bowed a long bowing, and then stood up straight, and then prostrated a prolonged prostration, and then lifted his head and prostrated a prolonged prostration.
And then he stood up for a long time, and then did a prolonged bowing, and then stood up straight again and kept on standing for a long time. Then he bowed a long bowing, and then stood up straight, and then prostrated a prolonged prostration, and then lifted his head and went for a prolonged prostration.
On completion of the prayer, he said, "Paradise became so near to me that, if I had dared, I would have plucked one of its bunches for you, and Hell became so near to me that I said, 'O my Lord, will I be among those people?'
Then suddenly I saw a woman, and a cat was lacerating her with its claws. On inquiring, it was said that the woman had imprisoned the cat till it died of starvation, and she neither fed it nor freed it so that it could feed itself."
Hadith - 140
Narrated Abu Ma`mar: We asked Khabbab whether Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to recite (the Qur'an) in the Zuhr and the `Asr prayers. He replied in the affirmative. We said, "How did you come to know about it?" He said, "By the movement of his beard."
Hadith - 141
Narrated Al-Bara (and Al-Bara was not a liar): Whenever we offered prayer with the Prophet (ﷺ) and he raised his head from the bowing, we used to remain standing till we saw him prostrating.
Hadith - 142
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Abbas: Once solar eclipse occurred during the lifetime of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). He offered the eclipse prayer. His companions asked, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! We saw you trying to take something while standing at your place, and then we saw you retreating."
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I was shown Paradise and wanted to have a bunch of fruit from it. Had I taken it, you would have eaten from it as long as the world remains."
Hadith - 143
Narrated Anas bin Malik: The Prophet (ﷺ) led us in prayer and then went up to the pulpit and beckoned with both hands towards the Qibla of the mosque and then said, "When I started leading you in prayer, I saw the display of Paradise and Hell on the wall of the mosque (facing the Qibla). I never saw good and bad as I have seen today." He repeated the last statement thrice.
Hadith - 144
Narrated Anas bin Malik: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "What is wrong with those people who look towards the sky during the prayer?" His talk grew stern while delivering this speech and he said, "They should stop (looking towards the sky during the prayer); otherwise their eyesight would be taken away."
Hadith - 145
Narrated `Aisha: I asked Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) about looking hither and thither in prayer. He replied, "It is a way of stealing by which Satan takes away (a portion) from the prayer of a person."
Hadith - 146
Narrated `Aisha: Once the Prophet (ﷺ) prayed on a Khamisa with marks on it and said, "The marks on it diverted my attention, take this Khamisa to Abu Jahm and bring an Inbijaniya (from him)."
Hadith - 147
Narrated Ibn `Umar: The Prophet (ﷺ) saw expectoration in the direction of the Qibla of the mosque while he was leading the prayer, and scratched it off. After finishing the prayer, he said, "Whenever any of you is in prayer, he should know that Allah is in front of him. So none should spit in front of him in the prayer."
Hadith - 148
Narrated Anas: While the Muslims were offering the Fajr prayer, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) suddenly appeared before them by lifting the curtain of the dwelling place of `Aisha, looked towards the Muslims who were standing in rows. He smiled with pleasure.
Abu Bakr started retreating to join the row on the assumption that the Prophet wanted to come out for the prayer. The Muslims intended to leave the prayer (and were on the verge of being put to trial), but the Prophet (ﷺ) beckoned them to complete their prayer, and then he let the curtain fall. He died in the last hours of that day.
Hadith - 149
Narrated Jabir bin Samura: The People of Kufa complained against Sa`d to `Umar, and the latter dismissed him and appointed `Ammar as their chief. They lodged many complaints against Sa`d, and even they alleged that he did not pray properly.
`Umar sent for him and said, "O Aba 'Is-haq! These people claim that you do not pray properly." Abu 'Is-haq said, "By Allah, I used to pray with them a prayer similar to that of Allah's Apostle, and I never reduced anything of it. I used to prolong the first two rak`at of `Isha prayer and shorten the last two rak`at." `Umar said, "O Aba 'Is-haq, this was what I thought about you."
And then he sent one or more persons with him to Kufa so as to ask the people about him. So they went there and did not leave any mosque without asking about him.
All the people praised him till they came to the mosque of the tribe of Bani `Abs; one of the men called Usama bin Qatada with a surname of Aba Sa`da stood up and said, "As you have put us under an oath; I am bound to tell you that Sa`d never went himself with the army and never distributed (the war booty) equally and never did justice in legal verdicts."
(On hearing it) Sa`d said, "I pray to Allah for three things: O Allah! If this slave of yours is a liar and got up for showing off, give him a long life, increase his poverty and put him to trials." (And so it happened).
Later on when that person was asked how he was, he used to reply that he was an old man in trial as the result of Sa`d's curse.
`Abdul Malik, the sub narrator, said that he had seen him afterwards and his eyebrows were overhanging his eyes owing to old age, and he used to tease and assault the small girls in the way.
Hadith - 150
Narrated 'Ubada bin As-Samit: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Whoever does not recite Al-Fatiha in his prayer, his prayer is invalid."
Hadith - 151
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) entered the mosque and a person followed him. The man prayed and went to the Prophet and greeted him. The Prophet (ﷺ) returned the greeting and said to him, "Go back and pray, for you have not prayed."
The man went back, prayed in the same way as before, returned and greeted the Prophet, who said, "Go back and pray, for you have not prayed." This happened thrice.
The man said, "By Him Who sent you with the Truth, I cannot offer the prayer in a better way than this. Please, teach me how to pray."
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "When you stand for Prayer, say Takbir and then recite from the Holy Qur'an (of what you know by heart), and then bow till you feel at ease. Then raise your head and stand up straight, then prostrate till you feel at ease during your prostration, then sit with calmness till you feel at ease (do not hurry) and do the same in all your prayers."
Hadith - 152
Narrated Jabir bin Samura: Sa`d said, "I used to pray with them a prayer similar to that of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (the prayer of Zuhr and `Asr) reducing nothing from them. I used to prolong the first two rak`at and shorten the last two rak`at." `Umar said to Sa`d, "This was what we thought about you."
Hadith - 153
Narrated `Abdullah bin Abi Qatada: My father said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) in Zuhr prayers used to recite Al-Fatiha along with two other Surahs in the first two rak`at: a long one in the first rak`a and a shorter (Surah) in the second, and at times the verses were audible.
In the `Asr prayer the Prophet (ﷺ) used to recite Al-Fatiha and two more Surahs in the first two rak`at and used to prolong the first rak`a. And he used to prolong the first rak`a of the Fajr prayer and shorten the second."
Hadith - 154
Narrated Abu Ma`mar: I asked Khabbab whether the Prophet (ﷺ) used to recite the Qur'an in the Zuhr and the `Asr prayers. He replied in the affirmative. We said, "How did you come to know that?" He said, "From the movement of his beard."
Hadith - 155
Narrated Abu Ma`mar: I asked Khabbab bin Al-Art whether the Prophet (ﷺ) used to recite the Qur'an in the Zuhr and the `Asr prayers. He replied in the affirmative. I said, "How did you come to know that?" He replied, "From the movement of his beard."
Hadith - 156
Narrated `Abdullah bin Abi Qatada: My father said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) used to recite Al-Fatiha along with another Surah in the first two rak`at of the Zuhr and the `Asr prayers, and at times a verse or so was audible to us."
Hadith - 157
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: (My mother) Umu-l-Fadl heard me reciting Surah Al-Mursalat (Surah 77) and said, "O my son! By Allah, your recitation made me remember that it was the last Surah I heard from Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). He recited it in the Maghrib prayer."
Hadith - 158
Narrated Marwan bin Al-Hakam: Zaid bin Thabit said to me, "Why do you recite very short Surahs in the Maghrib prayer, while I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) reciting the longer of the two long Surahs?"
Hadith - 159
Narrated Jubair bin Mut`im: My father said, "I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) reciting Surah at-Tur (Surah 52) in the Maghrib prayer."
Hadith - 160
Narrated Abu Rafi`: I offered the `Isha' prayer behind Abu Huraira, and he recited Surah al-Inshiqaq (Surah 84) and prostrated. On my inquiring, he said, "I prostrated behind Abul-Qasim (the Prophet) (when he recited that Surah) and I will go on doing it till I meet him."
Hadith - 161
Narrated Al-Bara: The Prophet (ﷺ) was on a journey, and recited in one of the first two rak`at of the `Isha' prayer Surah At-Tin.
Hadith - 162
Narrated Abu Rafi`: Once I prayed the `Isha' prayer with Abu Huraira, and he recited Surah al-Inshiqaq (Surah 84) and prostrated. I said, "What is that?" He said, "I prostrated behind Abul-Qasim, (the Prophet) (when he recited that Surah) and I will go on doing it till I meet him."
Hadith - 163
Narrated Al-Bara: I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) reciting Surah At-Tin (Surah 95) in the `Isha' prayer, and I never heard a sweeter voice or a better way of recitation than that of the Prophet.
Hadith - 164
Narrated Jabir bin Samura: `Umar said to Sa`d, "The people complained against you in everything, even in prayer." Sa`d replied, "Really, I used to prolong the first two rak`at and shorten the last two, and I will never shorten the prayer in which I follow Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)." `Umar said, "You are telling the truth, and that is what I think about you."
Hadith - 165
Narrated Saiyar bin Salama: My father and I went to Abu Barza al-Aslami to ask him about the stated times for the prayers.
He replied, "The Prophet (ﷺ) used to offer the Zuhr prayer when the sun just declined from its highest position at noon; the `Asr at a time when if a man went to the farthest place in Medina (after praying) he would find the sun still hot (bright).
(The sub narrator said: I have forgotten what Abu Barza said about the Maghrib prayer). The Prophet (ﷺ) never found any harm in delaying the `Isha' prayer to the first third of the night, and he never liked to sleep before it and to talk after it.
He used to offer the morning prayer at a time, when after finishing it, one could recognize the person sitting beside him, and used to recite between 60 to 100 verses in one or both the rak`at."
Hadith - 166
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Qur'an is recited in every prayer, and in those prayers in which Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) recited aloud for us, we recite aloud in the same prayers for you; and the prayers in which the Prophet (ﷺ) recited quietly, we recite quietly. If you recite "Al-Fatiha" only, it is sufficient, but if you recite something else in addition, it is better.
Hadith - 167
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: The Prophet (ﷺ) set out with the intention of going to Suq `Ukaz (market of `Ukaz) along with some of his companions. At the same time, a barrier was put between the devils and the news of heaven. Fire commenced to be thrown at them.
The Devils went to their people, who asked them, "What is wrong with you?" They said, "A barrier has been placed between us and the news of heaven. And fire has been thrown at us."
They said, "The thing which has put a barrier between you and the news of heaven must be something which has happened recently. Go eastward and westward and see what has put a barrier between you and the news of heaven."
Those who went towards Tihama came across the Prophet at a place called Nakhla, and it was on the way to Suq `Ukaz, and the Prophet (ﷺ) was offering the Fajr prayer with his companions. When they heard the Qur'an they listened to it and said, "By Allah, this is the thing which has put a barrier between us and the news of heaven."
They went to their people and said, "O our people; verily we have heard a wonderful recital (Qur'an) which shows the true path; we believed in it and would not ascribe partners to our Lord." Allah revealed the following verses to his Prophet (Surah Jinn) (Surah 72): "Say: It has been revealed to me." And what was revealed to him was the conversation of the Jinns.
Hadith - 168
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: The Prophet (ﷺ) recited aloud in the prayers in which he was ordered to do so, and quietly in the prayers in which he was ordered to do so. "And your Lord is not forgetful." "Verily there was a good example for you in the ways of the Prophet."
Hadith - 169
Anas said: One of the Ansar used to lead the Ansar in Salat in the Quba' mosque, and it was his habit to recite Surah al-Ikhlas whenever he wanted to recite something in Salat. When he finished that Surah, he would recite another one with it. He followed the same procedure in each Rak'a.
His companions discussed this with him and said, "You recite this Surah and do not consider it sufficient and then you recite another. So would you recite it alone or leave it and recite some other." He said, "I will never leave it, and if you want me to be your Imam on this condition then it is all right; otherwise I will leave you."
They knew that he was the best amongst them, and they did not like someone else to lead them in Salat. When the Prophet (ﷺ) went to them as usual, they informed him about it.
The Prophet (ﷺ) addressed him and said, "O so-and-so, what forbids you from doing what your companions ask you to do? Why do you read this Surah particularly in every Rak'a?" He replied, "I love this Surah." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Your love for this Surah will make you enter Paradise."
Hadith - 170
Narrated Abu Wa'il: A man came to Ibn Mas`ud and said, "I recited the Mufassal (Surahs) at night in one rak`a." Ibn Mas`ud said, "This recitation is (too quick) like the recitation of poetry. I know the identical Surahs which the Prophet (ﷺ) used to recite in pairs."
Ibn Mas`ud then mentioned 20 Mufassal Surahs including two Surahs from the family of (i.e. those verses which begin with) Haa, Meem (which the Prophet (ﷺ) used to recite) in each rak`a.
Hadith - 171
Narrated `Abdullah bin Abi Qatada: My father said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) used to recite Al-Fatiha followed by another Surah in the first two rak`at of the prayer, and used to recite only Al-Fatiha in the last two rak`at of the Zuhr prayer.
Sometimes a verse or so was audible, and he used to prolong the first rak`a more than the second, and used to do the same in the `Asr and Fajr prayers.
Hadith - 172
Narrated Abu Ma`mar: We said to Khabbab, "Did Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to recite in Zuhr and `Asr prayers?" He replied in the affirmative. We said, "How did you come to know about it?" He said, "By the movement of his beard."
Hadith - 173
Narrated `Abdullah bin Abi Qatada: My father said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) used to recite Al-Fatiha along with another Surah in the first two rak`at of the Zuhr and `Asr prayers. A verse or so was audible at times, and he used to prolong the first rak`a."
Hadith - 174
Narrated `Abdullah bin Abi Qatada: My father said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) used to prolong the first rak`a of the Zuhr prayer and shorten the second one, and used to do the same in the Fajr prayer."
Hadith - 175
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Say Amin when the Imam says it, and if the Amin of any one of you coincides with that of the angels, then all his past sins will be forgiven." Ibn Shihab said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to say Amin."
Hadith - 176
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If any one of you says, "Amin" and the angels in the heavens say "Amin", and the former coincides with the latter, all his past sins will be forgiven."
Hadith - 177
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Say Amin when the Imam says (what means), "not the path of those who earn Your Anger (such as Jews) nor of those who go astray (such as Christians)"; all the past sins of the person whose saying of Amin coincides with that of the angels, will be forgiven."
Hadith - 178
Narrated Abu Bakra: I reached the Prophet (ﷺ) in the mosque while he was bowing in prayer, and I too bowed before joining the row. I mentioned it to the Prophet (ﷺ) and he said to me, "May Allah increase your love for the good. But do not repeat it again (bowing in that way)."
Hadith - 179
Narrated `Imran bin Husain: I offered the prayer with `Ali in Basra, and he made us remember the prayer which we used to pray with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). `Ali said Takbir on each rising and bowing."
Hadith - 180
Narrated Abu Salama: When Abu Huraira led us in prayer, he used to say Takbir on each bowing and rising. On the completion of the prayer he used to say, "My prayer is more similar to the prayer of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) than that of anyone of you."
Hadith - 181
Narrated Mutarrif bin `Abdullah: `Imran bin Husain and I offered the prayer behind `Ali bin Abi Talib. When `Ali prostrated, he said the Takbir, when he raised his head, he said the Takbir and when he got up for the third rak`a he said the Takbir. On completion of the prayer `Imran took my hand and said, "This (i.e. `Ali) made me remember the prayer of Muhammad", or he said, "He led us in a prayer like that of Muhammad."
Hadith - 182
Narrated `Ikrima: I saw a person praying at Muqam-Ibrahim (the place of Abraham by the Ka`ba) and he was saying Takbir on every bowing, rising, standing and sitting. I asked Ibn `Abbas (about this prayer). He admonished me saying: "Isn't that the prayer of the Prophet?"
Hadith - 183
Narrated `Ikrima: I prayed behind a Sheikh at Mecca and he said twenty two Takbirs (during the prayer). I told Ibn `Abbas that he (i.e. that Sheikh) was foolish. Ibn `Abbas admonished me and said, "This is the tradition of Abul-Qasim."
Hadith - 184
And narrated Abu Huraira: Whenever Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) stood for the prayer, he said Takbir on starting the prayer and then on bowing. On rising from bowing he said, "Sami` Allahu liman hamidah," and then while standing straight he used to say, "Rabbana lakal hamd." (Al-Laithi said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Wa lakal hamd.")
He used to say Takbir on prostrating and on raising his head from prostration; again he would say Takbir on prostrating and raising his head. He would then do the same in the whole of the prayer till it was completed. On rising from the second rak`a (after sitting for at-Tahiyyat), he used to say Takbir.
Hadith - 185
Narrated Mus`ab bin Sa`d: I offered prayer beside my father and approximated both my hands and placed them in between the knees. My father told me not to do so and said, "We used to do the same but we were forbidden (by the Prophet) to do it, and were ordered to place the hands on the knees."
Hadith - 186
Narrated Zaid bin Wahb: Hudhaifa saw a person who was not performing the bowing and prostration perfectly. He said to him, "You have not prayed, and if you should die you would die on a religion other than that of Muhammad."
Hadith - 187
Narrated Al-Bara: The bowing, the prostration, the sitting in between the two prostrations and the standing after the bowing of the Prophet (ﷺ) but not qiyam (standing in the prayer) and qu`ud (sitting in the prayer) used to be approximately equal (in duration).
Hadith - 188
Narrated Abu Huraira: Once the Prophet (ﷺ) entered the mosque, a man came in, offered the prayer and greeted the Prophet. The Prophet returned his greeting and said to him, "Go back and pray again for you have not prayed."
The man offered the prayer again, came back and greeted the Prophet. He said to him thrice, "Go back and pray again for you have not prayed." The man said, "By Him Who has sent you with the truth! I do not know a better way of praying. Kindly teach me how to pray."
He said, "When you stand for the prayer, say Takbir and then recite from the Qur'an what you know, and then bow with calmness till you feel at ease, then rise from bowing till you stand straight.
Afterwards prostrate calmly till you feel at ease and then raise (your head) and sit with calmness till you feel at ease, and then prostrate with calmness till you feel at ease in prostration, and do the same in the whole of your prayer."
Hadith - 189
Narrated `Aisha: The Prophet (ﷺ) used to say in his bowing and prostrations (what means), "Exalted [from unbecoming attributes] are you O Allah our Lord, and by Your praise [do I exalt You]. O Allah! Forgive me."
Hadith - 190
Narrated Abu Huraira: When the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Sami` Allahu liman hamidah," (Allah heard those who sent praises to Him), he would say, "Rabbana wa lakal hamd." On bowing and raising his head from it the Prophet (ﷺ) used to say Takbir. He also used to say Takbir on rising after the two prostrations.
Hadith - 191
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "When the Imam says, "Sami` Allahu liman hamidah," you should say, "Allahumma Rabbana lakal hamd." And if the saying of any one of you coincides with that of the angels, all his past sins will be forgiven.
Hadith - 192
Narrated Abu Salama: Abu Hurairah said, "No doubt, my Salat is similar to that of the Prophet (ﷺ)." Abu Hurairah used to recite Qunut after saying "Sami' Allahu liman hamidah" in the last Rak'a of the Zuhr, Isha and Fajr Prayers. He would ask Allah's Forgiveness for the true believers and curse the disbelievers.
Hadith - 193
Narrated Anas: The qunut [supplication before going down for prostration] used to be recited in the Maghrib and the Fajr prayers.
Hadith - 194
Narrated Rifa`a bin Rafi` Az-Zuraqi: One day we were praying behind the Prophet. When he raised his head from bowing, he said, "Sami` Allahu liman hamidah." A man behind him said (what means), "O our Lord! All the praises are for You, many good and blessed praises".
When the Prophet completed the prayer, he asked, "Who has said these words?" The man replied, "I." The Prophet said, "I saw over thirty angels competing to write it first." The Prophet rose (from bowing) and stood straight till all the vertebrae of his spinal column came to a natural position.
Hadith - 195
Narrated Thabit: Anas used to demonstrate to us the prayer of the Prophet (ﷺ) and while demonstrating, he used to raise his head from bowing and stand so long that we would say that he had forgotten (the prostration).
Hadith - 196
Narrated Al-Bara': The bowing, the prostrations, the period of standing after bowing and the interval between the two prostrations of the Prophet (ﷺ) used to be equal in duration.
Hadith - 197
Narrated Aiyub: Abu Qilaba said, "Malik bin Huwairith used to demonstrate to us the prayer of the Prophet (ﷺ) at times other than that of the compulsory prayers.
So (once) he stood up for prayer and performed a perfect Qiyam (standing and reciting from the Holy Qur'an) and then bowed and performed bowing perfectly; then he raised his head and stood straight for a while."
Abu Qilaba added, "Malik bin Huwairith, in that demonstration, prayed like this Sheikh of ours, Abu Yazid." Abu Yazid used to sit (for a while) on raising his head from the second prostration before getting up.