Hadith - 198
Narrated Abu Bakr bin `Abdur Rahman Ibn Harith bin Hisham and Abu Salama bin `Abdur Rahman: Abu Huraira used to say Takbir in all the prayers, compulsory and optional -- in the month of Ramadan or other months.
He used to say Takbir on standing for prayer and on bowing; then he would say, "Sami` Allahu liman hamidah," and before prostrating he would say "Rabbana wa lakal hamd."
Then he would say Takbir on prostrating and on raising his head from the prostration, then another Takbir on prostrating (for the second time), and on raising his head from the prostration.
He also would say the Takbir on standing from the second rak`a. He used to do the same in every rak`a till he completed the prayer.
On completion of the prayer, he would say, "By Him in Whose Hands my soul is! No doubt my prayer is closer to that of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) than yours, and this was his prayer till he left this world."
Hadith - 199
And Abu Huraira said, "When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) raised his head from (bowing) he used to say "Sami` Allahu liman hamidah, Rabbana wa lakal hamd."
He would invoke Allah for some people by naming them: "O Allah! Save Al-Walid bin Al-Walid and Salama bin Hisham and `Aiyash bin Abi Rabi`a, and the weak and the helpless people among the faithful believers. O Allah! Be hard on the tribe of Mudar, and let them suffer from famine years like that of the time of Joseph." In those days the Eastern section of the tribe of Mudar was against the Prophet.
Hadith - 200
Narrated Anas bin Malik: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) fell from a horse and the right side of his body was injured. We went to inquire about his health. Meanwhile it was time for the prayer, and he led the prayer sitting and we also prayed while sitting.
On completion of the prayer he said, "The Imam is to be followed; say Takbir when he says it; bow when he bows; rise when he rises and when he says "Sami` Allahu liman hamidah," say, "Rabbana wa lakal hamd", and prostrate if he prostrates." Sufyan narrated the same from Ma`mar. Ibn Juraij said that his (the Prophet's) right leg had been injured.
Hadith - 201
Narrated Abu Huraira: The people said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Shall we see our Lord on the Day of Resurrection?"
He replied, "Do you have any doubt in seeing the full moon on a clear (not cloudy) night?" They replied, "No, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)!" He said, "Do you have any doubt in seeing the sun when there are no clouds?" They replied in the negative.
He said, "You will see Allah (your Lord) in the same way. On the Day of Resurrection, people will be gathered and He will order the people to follow what they used to worship.
So some of them will follow the sun, some will follow the moon, and some will follow other deities; and only this nation (Muslims) will be left with its hypocrites.
Allah will come to them and say, 'I am Your Lord.' They will say, 'We shall stay in this place till our Lord comes to us, and when our Lord will come, we will recognize Him.'
Then Allah will come to them again and say, 'I am your Lord.' They will say, 'You are our Lord.'
Allah will call them, and As-Sirat (a bridge) will be laid across Hell and I (Muhammad) shall be the first amongst the Apostles to cross it with my followers. Nobody except the Apostles will then be able to speak and they will be saying then, 'O Allah! Save us. O Allah Save us.'
There will be hooks like the thorns of Sa'dan in Hell. Have you seen the thorns of Sa'dan?" The people said, "Yes."
He said, "These hooks will be like the thorns of Sa'dan, but nobody except Allah knows their greatness in size, and these will entangle the people according to their deeds; some of them will fall and stay in Hell forever; others will receive punishment (torn into small pieces) and will get out of Hell, till when Allah intends mercy on whomever He likes amongst the people of Hell, He will order the angels to take out of Hell those who worshipped none but Him alone.
The angels will take them out by recognizing them from the traces of prostrations, for Allah has forbidden the Hellfire to eat away those traces. So they will come out of the Fire, it will eat away from the whole of the human body except the marks of the prostrations.
At that time they will come out of the Fire as mere skeletons. The Water of Life will be poured on them, and as a result, they will grow like the seeds growing on the bank of flowing water.
Then, when Allah had finished from the Judgments amongst his creations, one man will be left between Hell and Paradise, and he will be the last man from the people of Hell to enter Paradise.
He will be facing Hell, and will say, 'O Allah! Turn my face from the fire, as its wind has dried me and its steam has burnt me.'
Allah will ask him, "Will you ask for anything more in case this favor is granted to you?' He will say, "No, by Your (Honor) Power!" And he will give to his Lord (Allah) what he will of the pledges and the covenants. Allah will then turn his face from the Fire.
When he will face Paradise and will see its charm, he will remain quiet as long as Allah wills. He then will say, 'O my Lord! Let me go to the gate of Paradise.'
Allah will ask him, 'Didn't you give pledges and make covenants (to the effect) that you would not ask for anything more than what you requested at first?' He will say, 'O my Lord! Do not make me the most wretched amongst Your creatures.'
Allah will say, 'If this request is granted, will you then ask for anything else?' He will say, 'No! By Your Power! I shall not ask for anything else.' Then he will give to his Lord what He wills of the pledges and the covenants. Allah will then let him go to the gate of Paradise.
On reaching them and seeing its life, charm, and pleasure, he will remain quiet as long as Allah wills, and then will say, 'O my Lord! Let me enter Paradise.'
Allah will say, "May Allah be merciful unto you, O son of Adam! How treacherous you are! Haven't you made covenants and given pledges that you will not ask for anything more than what you have been given?"
He will say, 'O my Lord! Do not make me the most wretched amongst Your creatures.' So Allah will laugh and allow him to enter Paradise, and will ask him to request as much as he likes. He will do so, till all his desires have been fulfilled.
Then Allah will say, 'Request more of such-and-such things.' Allah will remind him, and when all his desires and wishes have been fulfilled, Allah will say "All this is granted to you and a similar amount besides."
Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri said to Abu Huraira, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Allah said, 'That is for you, and ten times more like it.'"
"Abu Huraira said, "I do not remember from Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) except (his saying), 'All this is granted to you, and a similar amount besides." Abu Sa`id said, "I heard him saying, 'That is for you and ten times more the like of it.'"
Hadith - 202
Narrated `Abdullah bin Malik bin Buhaina: Whenever the Prophet (ﷺ) used to offer prayer, he used to keep arms away (from the body) so that the whiteness of his armpits was visible.
Hadith - 203
Narrated Abu Wa'il: Hudhaifa said, "I saw a person not performing his bowing and prostrations perfectly. When he completed the prayer, I told him that he had not prayed."
I think that Hudhaifa added (i.e. said to the man), "Had you died, you would have died on a tradition other than that of the Prophet Muhammad (ﷺ)."
Hadith - 204
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: The Prophet (ﷺ) was ordered (by Allah) to prostrate on seven parts, and not to tuck up the clothes or hair (while praying). Those parts are: the forehead (along with the tip of nose), both hands, both knees, and (toes of) both feet.
Hadith - 205
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "We have been ordered to prostrate on seven bones, and not to tuck up the clothes or hair."
Hadith - 206
Narrated Al-Bara' bin `Azib (he was not a liar): We used to pray behind the Prophet (ﷺ) and when he said, "Sami` Allahu liman hamidah", none of us would bend his back (to go for prostration), till the Prophet (ﷺ) had placed his forehead on the ground.
Hadith - 207
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I have been ordered to prostrate on seven bones, i.e. on the forehead along with the tip of the nose, and the Prophet (ﷺ) pointed towards his nose, both hands, both knees and the toes of both feet, and not to gather the clothes or the hair.
Hadith - 208
Narrated Abu Salama: Once I went to Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri and asked him, "Won't you come with us to the date-palm trees to have a talk?" So Abu Sa`id went out and I asked him, "Tell me what you heard from the Prophet (ﷺ) about the Night of Qadr."
Abu Sa`id replied, "Once Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) performed I`tikaf (seclusion) on the first ten days of the month of Ramadan, and we did the same with him. Gabriel came to him and said, 'The night you are looking for is ahead of you.'
So the Prophet (ﷺ) performed the I`tikaf in the middle (second) ten days of the month of Ramadan, and we too performed I`tikaf with him. Gabriel came to him and said, 'The night which you are looking for is ahead of you.'
In the morning of the 20th of Ramadan, the Prophet (ﷺ) delivered a sermon saying, 'Whoever has performed I`tikaf with me should continue it. I have been shown the Night of Qadr, but have forgotten its date, but it is in the odd nights of the last ten nights. I saw in my dream that I was prostrating in mud and water.'
In those days the roof of the mosque was made of branches of date-palm trees. At that time, the sky was clear and no cloud was visible, but suddenly a cloud came and it rained.
The Prophet (ﷺ) led us in the prayer, and I saw the traces of mud on the forehead and on the nose of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). So it was the confirmation of that dream."
Hadith - 209
Narrated Sahl bin Sa`d: The people used to pray with the Prophet (ﷺ) tying their Izars around their necks because of their small sizes, and the women were directed that they should not raise their heads from the prostrations till the men had sat straight.
Hadith - 210
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: The Prophet (ﷺ) was ordered to prostrate on seven bony parts, and not to tuck up his clothes or hair.
Hadith - 211
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I have been ordered to prostrate on seven (bones), and not to tuck up the hair or garment."
Hadith - 212
Narrated `Aisha: The Prophet (ﷺ) used to say frequently in his bowing and prostrations (what means), "Exalted [from unbecoming attributes] are You O Allah our Lord, and by Your praise [do I exalt You]. O Allah! Forgive me". In this way, he was acting on what was explained to him in the Holy Qur'an.
Hadith - 213
Narrated Abu Qilaba: Once Malik bin Huwairith said to his friends, "Shall I show you how Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to offer his prayers?" And it was not the time for any of the compulsory congregational prayers.
So he stood up (for the prayer) bowed and said the Takbir, then he raised his head and remained standing for a while, and then prostrated and raised his head for a while (sat up for a while). He prayed like our Sheikh `Amr Ibn Salima."
(Aiyub said, "The latter used to do a thing which I did not see the people doing, i.e. he used to sit between the third and the fourth rak`a").
Malik bin Huwairith said, "We came to the Prophet (after embracing Islam) and stayed with him. He said to us, 'When you go back to your families, pray such-and-such a prayer at such-and-such a time, pray such-and-such a prayer at such-and-such a time, and when there is the time for the prayer, then only one of you should pronounce the Adhan for the prayer and the oldest of you should lead the prayer.'"
Hadith - 214
Narrated Al-Bara': The time taken by the Prophet (ﷺ) in prostrations, bowing, and the sitting interval between the two prostrations was about the same.
Hadith - 215
Narrated Thabit: Anas said, "I will leave no stone unturned in making you offer the prayer as I have seen the Prophet (ﷺ) making us offer it."
Anas used to do a thing which I have not seen you doing. He used to stand after the bowing for such a long time that one would think that he had forgotten (the prostrations) and he used to sit in-between the prostrations so long that one would think that he had forgotten the second prostration.
Hadith - 216
Narrated Anas bin Malik: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Be straight in the prostrations, and none of you should put his forearms on the ground (in the prostration) like a dog."
Hadith - 217
Narrated Malik bin Huwairith Al-Laithi: I saw the Prophet (ﷺ) praying and in the odd rak`at, he used to sit for a moment before getting up.
Hadith - 218
Narrated Aiyub: Abu Qilaba said, "Malik bin Huwairith came to us and led us in the prayer in this mosque of ours and said, 'I lead you in prayer, but I do not want to offer the prayer, but just to show you how Allah's Apostle performed his prayers."
I asked Abu Qilaba, "How was the prayer of Malik bin Huwairith?" He replied, "Like the prayer of this Sheikh of ours, i.e. `Amr bin Salima."
That Sheikh used to pronounce the Takbir perfectly, and when he raised his head from the second prostration he would sit for a while and then support himself on the ground and get up.
Hadith - 219
Narrated Sa`id bin Al-Harith: Abu Sa`id led us in the prayer and said the Takbir aloud on arising from the prostration, and on prostrating, on rising again, and on getting up from the second rak`a. Abu Sa`id said, "I saw the Prophet doing the same."
Hadith - 220
Narrated Mutarrif: `Imran and I prayed behind `Ali bin Abi Talib, and he said Takbir on prostrating, on rising and on getting up after the two rak`at (i.e. after the second rak`a). When the prayer was finished, `Imran took me by the hand and said, "He (`Ali) has prayed the prayer of Muhammad" (or said, "He made us remember the prayer of Muhammad").
Hadith - 221
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Abdullah: I saw `Abdullah bin `Umar crossing his legs while sitting in the prayer and I, a mere youngster in those days, did the same.
Ibn `Umar forbade me to do so, and said, "The proper way is to keep the right foot propped up and bend the left in the prayer." I said questioningly, "But you are doing so (crossing the legs)." He said, "My feet cannot bear my weight."
Hadith - 222
Narrated Muhammad bin `Amr bin `Ata': I was sitting with some of the companions of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), and we were discussing about the way of praying of the Prophet.
Abu Humaid As-Sa`idi said, "I remember the prayer of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) better than any one of you. I saw him raising both his hands up to the level of the shoulders on saying the Takbir; and on bowing, he placed his hands on both knees and bent his back straight, then he stood up straight from bowing till all the vertebrate took their normal positions.
In prostrations, he placed both his hands on the ground with the forearms away from the ground and away from his body, and his toes were facing the Qibla.
On sitting in the second rak`a, he sat on his left foot and propped up the right one; and in the last rak`a he pushed his left foot forward and kept the other foot propped up and sat over the buttocks."
Hadith - 223
Narrated `Abdullah bin Buhaina (he was from the tribe of Uzd Shanu'a and was the ally of the tribe of `Abdul-Manaf, and was one of the companions of the Prophet): Once the Prophet (ﷺ) led us in the Zuhr prayer and stood up after the second rak`a and did not sit down. The people stood up with him. When the prayer was about to end and the people were waiting for him to say the Taslim, he said Takbir while sitting and prostrated twice before saying the Taslim, and then he said the Taslim.
Hadith - 224
Narrated `Abdullah bin Malik bin Buhaina: Once Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) led us in the Zuhr prayer and got up (after the prostrations of the second rak`a) although he should have sat (for the Tashahhud). So at the end of the prayer, he prostrated twice while sitting (prostrations of Sahu).
Hadith - 225
Narrated Shaqiq bin Salama: `Abdullah said, "Whenever we prayed behind the Prophet (ﷺ), we used to recite (in sitting) 'Peace be on Gabriel, Michael, peace be on so-and-so.'
Once Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) looked back at us and said, "Allah Himself is As-Salam (Peace), and if anyone of you prays then he should say (what means), "All the compliments, prayers and good things are due to Allah; peace be on you, O Prophet, and Allah's mercy and blessings [be on you]. Peace be on us an on the pious subjects of Allah". (If you say that, it will reach all the subjects in the heaven and the earth). "I testify that there is no Deity [worthy of worship] but Allah, and I testify that Muhammad is His slave and His Apostle."
Hadith - 226
Narrated `Aisha (the wife of the Prophet): Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to invoke Allah in the prayer saying (what means), "O Allah, I seek refuge with You from the punishment of the grave, from the afflictions of the imposter Messiah, and from the afflictions of life and death. O Allah, I seek refuge with You from sins and from debt."
Somebody said to him, "Why do you so frequently seek refuge with Allah from being in debt?" The Prophet (ﷺ) replied, "A person in debt tells lies whenever he speaks, and breaks promises whenever he makes (them)."
`Aisha also narrated: I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) in his prayer seeking refuge with Allah from the afflictions of Ad-Dajjal.
Hadith - 227
Narrated Abu Bakr As-Siddiq: I asked Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) to teach me an invocation so that I may invoke Allah with it in my prayer. He told me to say, "O Allah! I have done great injustice to myself and none except You forgives sins, so bestow on me a forgiveness from You, and Have Mercy on me, You are the Forgiver, the Merciful."
Hadith - 228
Narrated `Abdullah: When we prayed with the Prophet (ﷺ) we used to say, "Peace be on Allah from His slaves and peace be on so-and-so."
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Don't say As-Salam be on Allah, for He Himself is As-Salam, but say (what means), "All the compliments, prayers and good things are due to Allah; peace be on you, O Prophet, and Allah's mercy and blessings [be on you]. Peace be on us and on the pious subjects of Allah". (If you say this then it will reach all the slaves in heaven or between heaven and earth). "I testify that there is no Deity [worthy of worship] but Allah, and I testify that Muhammad is His slave and His Apostle." Then select the invocation you like best and recite it."
Hadith - 229
Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri: I saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) prostrating in mud and water, and saw the mark of mud on his forehead.
Hadith - 230
Narrated Um Salama: Whenever Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) finished his prayers with Taslim, the women would get up and he would stay on for a while in his place before getting up. Ibn Shihab said, "I think (and Allah knows better), that the purpose of his stay was that the women might leave before the men who had finished their prayer."
Hadith - 231
Narrated `Itban bin Malik: We prayed with the Prophet (ﷺ) and used to finish our prayer with the Taslim along with him.
Hadith - 232
Narrated Mahmud bin Ar-Rabi`: I remember Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and also the mouthful of water which he took from a bucket in our house and ejected (on me).
I heard from `Itban bin Malik Al-Ansari, who was one from Bani Salim, saying, "I used to lead my tribe of Bani Salim in prayer.
Once I went to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said to him, 'I have weak eyesight, and at times the rainwater flood intervenes between me and the mosque of my tribe, and I wish that you would come to my house and pray at some place, so that I could take that place as a place for praying (mosque).'
He said, "Allah willing, I shall do that."
Next day Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), along with Abu Bakr, came to my house after the sun had risen high and he asked permission to enter. I gave him permission, but he didn't sit till he said to me, "Where do you want me to pray in your house?"
I pointed to a place in the house where I wanted him to pray. So he stood up for the prayer and we aligned behind him. He completed the prayer with Taslim and we did the same simultaneously.
Hadith - 233
Narrated Abu Ma`bad (the freed slave of Ibn `Abbas): Ibn `Abbas told me, "In the lifetime of the Prophet (ﷺ), it was the custom to celebrate Allah's praises aloud after the compulsory congregational prayers."
Ibn `Abbas further said, "When I heard the Dhikr, I would learn that the compulsory congregational prayer had ended."
Hadith - 234
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: I used to recognize the completion of the prayer of the Prophet (ﷺ) by hearing Takbir.
Hadith - 235
Narrated Abu Huraira: Some poor people came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said, "The wealthy people will get higher grades and will have permanent enjoyment and they pray like us and fast as we do. They have more money by which they perform the Hajj and `Umra, fight and struggle in Allah's Cause and give in charity."
The Prophet said, "Shall I not tell you a thing upon which if you acted, you would catch up with those who have surpassed you? Nobody would overtake you, and you would be better than the people amongst whom you live, except those who would do the same. Say "Subhan Allah", "Alhamdulillah" and "Allahu Akbar" thirty three times each after every (compulsory) prayer."
We differed and some of us said that we should say, "Subhan Allah" thirty three times, and "Alhamdulillah" thirty three times and "Allahu Akbar" thirty four times.
I went to the Prophet (ﷺ) who said, "Say, "Subhan Allah" and "Alhamdulillah" and "Allahu Akbar" all together, thirty three times."
Hadith - 236
Narrated Warrad (the clerk of Al-Mughira bin Shu`ba): Once Al-Mughira dictated to me in a letter addressed to Muawiya that the Prophet (ﷺ) used to say after every compulsory prayer (what means), "There is no Deity but Allah, Alone, no Partner to Him. His is the Kingdom and all praise, and Omnipotent is He. O Allah! Nobody can hold back what you gave, nobody can give what You held back, and no struggler's effort can benefit against You." And Al-Hasan said, "Al-jadd" means prosperity.
Hadith - 237
Narrated Samura bin Jundub: The Prophet (ﷺ) used to face us on completion of the prayer.
Hadith - 238
Narrated Zaid bin Khalid Al-Juhani: The Prophet (ﷺ) led us in the Fajr prayer at Hudaibiya after a rainy night. On completion of the prayer, he faced the people and said, "Do you know what your Lord has said (revealed)?" The people replied, "Allah and His Apostle know better."
He said, "Allah has said, 'In this morning some of my slaves remained as true believers and some became non-believers; whoever said that the rain was due to the Blessings and the Mercy of Allah had belief in Me and he disbelieves in the stars, and whoever said that it rained because of a particular star had no belief in Me, but believes in that star.'"
Hadith - 239
Narrated Anas bin Malik: Once the Prophet (ﷺ) delayed the `Isha' prayer until midnight and then came to us. Having prayed, he faced us and said, "The people had prayed and slept, but you were in the prayer as long as you were waiting for it."
Hadith - 240
Narrated Nafi: Ibn Umar used to offer prayers (Nawafil) at the place where he had offered the compulsory prayer. Al-Qasim (bin Muhammad bin Abi Bakr) did the same.
The narration coming from Abu Hurairah (from the Prophet (ﷺ)) forbidding the Imam from offering prayers (optional prayer) at the same place where he has offered the compulsory prayer is incorrect.
Hadith - 241
Narrated Um Salama: "The Prophet (ﷺ), after finishing the prayer with Taslim, used to stay at his place for a while." Ibn Shihab said, "I think (and Allah knows better), that he used to wait for the departure of the women who had prayed."
Ibn Shihab wrote that he had heard it from Hind bint Al-Harith Al-Firasiya from Um Salama, the wife of the Prophet (Hind was from the companions of Um Salama) who said, "When the Prophet (ﷺ) finished the prayer with Taslim, the women would depart and enter their houses before Allah's Apostle departed."
Hadith - 242
Narrated `Uqba: I offered the `Asr prayer behind the Prophet (ﷺ) at Medina. When he had finished the prayer with Taslim, he got up hurriedly and went out by crossing the rows of the people to one of the dwellings of his wives. The people got scared at his speed.
The Prophet (ﷺ) came back and found the people surprised at his haste, and said to them, "I remembered a piece of gold lying in my house, and I did not like it to divert my attention from Allah's worship, so I have ordered it to be distributed (in charity)."
Hadith - 243
Narrated `Abdullah: You should not give away a part of your prayer to Satan by thinking that it is necessary to depart (after finishing the prayer) from one's right side only; I have seen the Prophet (ﷺ) often leave from the left side.
Hadith - 244
Narrated Ibn `Umar: During the holy battle of Khaibar, the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Whoever ate from this plant (i.e. garlic) should not enter our mosque."
Hadith - 245
Narrated `Ata': I heard Jabir bin `Abdullah saying, "The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'Whoever eats (from) this plant (he meant garlic) should keep away from our mosque." I said, "What does he mean by that?" He replied, "I think he means only raw garlic."
Hadith - 246
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Whoever eats garlic or onion should keep away from our mosque, or should remain in his house." 
Jabir bin `Abdullah, in another narration said, "Once a big pot containing cooked vegetables was brought. On finding unpleasant smell coming from it, the Prophet (ﷺ) asked, 'What is in it?' He was told all the names of the vegetables that were in it.
The Prophet (ﷺ) ordered that it should be brought near to some of his companions who were with him. When the Prophet (ﷺ) saw it, he disliked to eat it and said, 'Eat. (I don't eat) for I converse with those whom you don't converse with (i.e. the angels).'
Hadith - 247
Narrated `Abdul `Aziz: A man asked Anas, "What did you hear from the Prophet (ﷺ) about garlic?" He said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'Whoever has eaten this plant should neither come near us nor pray with us.'"
Hadith - 248
Narrated Sulaiman Ash-Shaibani: I heard Ash-Shu`bi saying, "A person who was accompanying the Prophet (ﷺ) passed by a grave that was separated from the other graves, told me that the Prophet (ﷺ) once led the people in the (funeral) prayer and the people had aligned behind him. I said, "O Aba `Amr! Who told you about it?" He said, "Ibn `Abbas."
Hadith - 249
Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Ghusl (taking a bath) on Friday is compulsory for every Muslim reaching the age of puberty."
Hadith - 250
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: One night I slept at the house of my aunt Maimuna and the Prophet (ﷺ) slept (too). He got up (for prayer) in the last hours of the night, and performed a light ablution from a hanging leather skin. (`Amr, the sub-narrator described that the ablution was very light).
Then he stood up for prayer, and I got up too and performed the ablution in the same way, and joined him on his left side. He pulled me to the right and prayed as much as Allah willed.
Then he lay down and slept, and I heard his breath sounds till the Mu'adh-dhin came to him to inform him about the (Fajr) prayer. He left with him for the prayer, and prayed without repeating the ablution.
Sufyan, the sub-narrator, said: We said to `Amr, "Some people say, 'The eyes of the Prophet (ﷺ) sleep but his heart never sleeps.'" `Amr said, "Ubai bin `Umar said, 'The dreams of the Prophets are Divine Inspirations. Then he recited, '(O my son), I have seen in dream that I was slaughtering you (offering you in sacrifice).'"
Hadith - 251
Narrated Anas bin Malik: My grandmother Mulaika invited Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) for a meal which she had prepared specially for him. He ate some of it and said, "Get up. I shall lead you in the prayer."
I brought a mat that had become black owing to excessive use, and I sprinkled water on it. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) stood on it and prayed two rak`at; and the orphan was with me (in the first row), and the old lady stood behind us.
Hadith - 252
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: Once I came riding a she-ass and I, then, had just attained the age of puberty. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was leading the people in prayer at Mina, facing no wall.
I passed in front of the row and let loose the she-ass for grazing and joined the row, and no one objected to my deed.
Hadith - 253
Narrated `Aisha: Once Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) delayed the `Isha' prayer, till `Umar informed him that the women and children had slept. Then Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) came out and said: "None from amongst the dwellers of earth have prayed this prayer except you." In those days none but the people of Medina prayed.
Hadith - 254
Narrated `Abdur Rahman bin `Abis: A person asked Ibn `Abbas, "Have you ever presented yourself at the `Id prayer with Allah's Apostle?" He replied, "Yes. And had it not been for my kinship (position) with the Prophet (ﷺ) it would not have been possible for me to do so (for he was too young).
The Prophet (ﷺ) went to the mark near the house of Kathir bin As-Salt and delivered a sermon. He then went towards the women. He advised and reminded them, and asked them to give alms.
So the woman would bring her hand near her neck and take off her necklace and put it in the garment of Bilal. Then the Prophet (ﷺ) and Bilal came to the house."
Hadith - 255
Narrated `Aisha: Once Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) delayed the `Isha' prayer, till `Umar informed him that the women and children had slept. The Prophet (ﷺ) came out and said, "None except you from amongst the dwellers of earth is waiting for this prayer."
In those days, there was no prayer except in Medina, and they used to pray the `Isha' prayer between the disappearance of the twilight and the first third of the night.
Hadith - 256
Narrated Ibn `Umar: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If your women ask permission to go to the mosque at night, allow them."
Hadith - 257
Narrated Um Salama (the wife of the Prophet): In the lifetime of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), the women used to get up when they finished their compulsory prayers with Taslim.
The Prophet (ﷺ) and the men would stay on at their places as long as Allah willed. When the Prophet (ﷺ) got up, the men would then get up.
Hadith - 258
Narrated `Aisha: When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) finished the Fajr prayer, the women would leave covered in their sheets and were not recognized owing to the darkness.
Hadith - 259
Narrated `Abdullah bin Abi Qatada Al-Ansari: My father said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Whenever I stand for prayer, I want to prolong it, but on hearing the cries of a child, I would shorten it, as I dislike to put its mother in trouble."
Hadith - 260
Narrated `Aisha: Had Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) known what the women were doing, he would have forbidden them from going to the mosque as the women of Bani Israel had been forbidden. Yahya bin Sa`id (a sub-narrator) asked `Amra (another sub-narrator), "Were the women of Bani Israel forbidden?" She replied "Yes."
Hadith - 261
Narrated Um Salama: Whenever Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) completed the prayer with Taslim, the women used to get up immediately, and Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) would remain at his place for some time before getting up.
The sub-narrator (Az-Zuhri) said, "We think, and Allah knows better, that he did so, so that the women might leave before men could get in touch with them."
Hadith - 262
Narrated Anas: The Prophet (ﷺ) prayed in the house of Um Sulaim; and I, along with an orphan, stood behind him while Um Sulaim (stood) behind us.
Hadith - 263
Narrated `Aisha: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to offer the Fajr prayer when it was still dark, and the believing women used to return (after finishing their prayer) and nobody could recognize them owing to darkness, or they could not recognize one another.
Hadith - 264
Narrated Salim bin `Abdullah: My father said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'If the wife of any one of you asks permission (to go to the mosque), do not forbid her.'"
Hadith - 265
Narrated Anas: The Prophet (ﷺ) prayed in the house of Um Sulaim; and I, along with an orphan, stood behind him while Um Sulaim (stood) behind us.
Hadith - 266
Narrated Umm Salama: Whenever Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) completed the Salat with Taslim, the women used to get up immediately, and Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) would remain at his place for sometime before getting up.
The sub-narrator (Az-Zuhri) said, "We think, and Allah knows better, that he did so, so that the women might leave before the men could catch up with them."