Hadith - 1
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: The Prophet (ﷺ) once stayed for nineteen days and prayed shortened prayers.
So when we travelled (and stayed) for nineteen days, we used to shorten the prayer, but if we traveled (and stayed) for a longer period, we used to offer the full prayer.
Hadith - 2
Narrated Yahya bin 'Is-haq: I heard Anas saying, "We traveled with the Prophet (ﷺ) from Medina to Mecca and offered two rak`at (for every prayer) till we returned to Medina."
I said, "Did you stay for a while in Mecca?" He replied, "We stayed in Mecca for ten days."
Hadith - 3
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar: I offered the prayer with the Prophet, Abu Bakr and `Umar at Mina, and it was of two rak`at. `Uthman in the early days of his caliphate did the same, but later on he started praying the full prayer.
Hadith - 4
Narrated Haritha bin Wahb: The Prophet (ﷺ) led us in the prayer at Mina during the peace period by offering two rak`at.
Hadith - 5
Narrated `Abdur Rahman bin Yazid: We offered a four rak`at prayer at Mina behind Ibn `Affan. `Abdullah bin Mas`ud was informed about it.
He said sadly, "Truly to Allah we belong and truly to Him we shall return." And added, "I prayed two rak`at with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) at Mina, and similarly with Abu Bakr and with `Umar (during their caliphates)."
He further said, "May I be lucky enough to have two of the four rak`at accepted (by Allah)."
Hadith - 6
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: The Prophet (ﷺ) and his companions reached Mecca in the morning of the 4th Dhul-Hijja reciting Talbiya (O Allah! We are obedient to your orders, we respond to your call...), intending to perform Hajj.
The Prophet (ﷺ) ordered his companions to assume the Ihram for Umrah instead of Hajj, excepting those who had Hadi (sacrifice) with them.
Hadith - 7
Narrated Ibn `Umar: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "A woman should not travel for more than three days except with a Dhi-Mahram (i.e. a male with whom she cannot marry at all, e.g. her brother, father, grandfather etc) or her own husband."
Hadith - 8
Narrated Ibn `Umar: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "A woman should not travel for more than three days except with a Dhi-Mahram."
Hadith - 9
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "It is not permissible for a woman who believes in Allah and the Last Day to travel for one day and night, except with a Mahram."
Hadith - 10
Narrated Anas bin Malik: I offered four rak`at of Zuhr prayer with the Prophet (ﷺ) at Medina and two rak`at at Dhul-Hulaifa (i.e. shortened the `Asr prayer).
Hadith - 11
Narrated `Aisha: "When the prayers were first enjoined, they were of two rak`at each. Later the prayer in a journey was kept as it was, but the prayers for non-travelers were completed."
Az-Zuhri said, "I asked `Urwa what made Aisha pray the full prayers (in journey)." He replied, "She did the same as `Uthman did."
Hadith - 12
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar: "I saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) delaying the Maghrib prayer till he offered it along with the `Isha' prayer whenever he was in a hurry during the journey."
Salim narrated, "Ibn `Umar used to do the same whenever he was in a hurry during the journey." And Salim added, "Ibn `Umar used to pray the Maghrib and `Isha' prayers together in Al-Muzdalifa."
Salim said, "Ibn `Umar delayed the Maghrib prayer, because at that time he heard the news of the death of his wife Safiya bint Abi `Ubaid.
I said to him, 'The prayer (is due).' He said, 'Go on.' Again I said, 'The prayer (is due).' He said, 'Go on,' till we covered two or three miles. Then he got down, prayed and said, 'I saw the Prophet (ﷺ) praying in this way, whenever he was in a hurry during the journey.'
`Abdullah bin `Umar added, "Whenever the Prophet was in a hurry, he used to delay the Maghrib prayer and then offer three rak`at (of the Maghrib) and perform Taslim, and after waiting for a short while, Iqama used to be pronounced for the `Isha' prayer when he would offer two rak`at and perform Taslim.
He would never offer any optional prayer till the middle of the night (when he used to pray the Tahajjud)."
Hadith - 13
Narrated `Abdullah bin 'Amir from his father who said: I saw the Prophet (ﷺ) offering the prayer on his mount (Rahila) whatever direction it took.
Hadith - 14
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah: The Prophet (ﷺ) used to offer the Nawafil, while riding, facing a direction other than that of the Qibla.
Hadith - 15
Narrated Nafi`: Ibn `Umar (while on a journey) used to offer the prayer and the witr on his mount (Rahila). He said that the Prophet (ﷺ) used to do so.
Hadith - 16
Narrated `Abdullah bin Dinar: On traveling, `Abdullah bin `Umar used to offer the prayer on his Mount by signs whatever direction it took. `Abdullah said that the Prophet (ﷺ) used to do so.
Hadith - 17
Narrated 'Aamir bin Rabi`a: I saw the Prophet (ﷺ) on his Mount praying Nawafil by nodding his head, whatever direction he faced, but Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) never did the same in offering the compulsory prayers.
Hadith - 18
Narrated Salim: At night, `Abdullah bin `Umar used to offer the prayer on the back of his animal during the journey, and never cared about the direction he faced.
Ibn `Umar said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to offer the optional prayer on the back of his Mount facing any direction, and also used to pray the witr on it, but never offered the compulsory prayer on it."
Hadith - 19
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah: The Prophet (ﷺ) used to pray (the Nawafil) on his Mount facing east, and whenever he wanted to offer the compulsory prayer, he used to dismount and face the Qibla.
Hadith - 20
Narrated Anas bin Seereen: We went to receive Anas bin Malik when he returned from Sham and met him at a place called 'Ain at-Tamr. I saw him praying riding the donkey, with his face to this direction, i.e. to the left of the Qibla.
I said to him, "I have seen you offering the prayer in a direction other than that of the Qibla." He replied, "If I had not seen Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) doing it, I would not have done it."
Hadith - 21
Narrated Hafs bin `Asim: Ibn `Umar went on a journey and said, "I accompanied the Prophet (ﷺ) and he did not offer optional prayers during the journey, and Allah says: 'Verily! In Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) you have a good example to follow.'"
Hadith - 22
Narrated Ibn `Umar: I accompanied Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and he never offered more than two rak`at during the journey. Abu Bakr, `Umar and `Uthman used to do the same.
Hadith - 23
Narrated Ibn Abu Laila: Only Um Hani told us that she had seen the Prophet (ﷺ) offering the Duha (forenoon prayer).
She said, "On the day of the conquest of Mecca, the Prophet (ﷺ) took a bath in my house and offered eight rak`at. I never saw him praying such a light prayer but he performed perfect prostration and bowing."
Hadith - 24
Narrated `Abdullah bin Aamir that his father had told him that he had seen the Prophet (ﷺ) praying Nawafil at night on the back of his Mount on a journey, facing whatever direction it took.
Hadith - 25
Narrated Salim bin `Abdullah: Ibn `Umar said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to pray the Nawafil on the back of his Mount (carriage) by signs facing any direction." Ibn `Umar used to do the same.
Hadith - 26
Narrated Salim's father: The Prophet (ﷺ) used to offer the Maghrib and `Isha' prayers together whenever he was in a hurry on a journey.
Hadith - 27
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to offer the Zuhr and `Asr prayers together on journeys, and also used to offer the Maghrib and `Isha' prayers together. Narrated Anas bin Malik: The Prophet (ﷺ) used to offer the Maghrib and the `Isha' prayers together on journeys.
Hadith - 28
Narrated Anas: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to offer these two prayers together on journeys, i.e. the Maghrib and the `Isha.
Hadith - 29
Narrated Az-Zuhri: Salim told me, "`Abdullah bin `Umar said, 'I saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) delaying the Maghrib prayer till he offered it along with the `Isha prayer whenever he was in a hurry during the journey.'"
Salim said, "Abdullah bin `Umar used to do the same whenever he was in a hurry during the journey. After making the call for Iqama for the Maghrib prayer, he used to offer three rak`at and then perform Taslim.
After waiting for a short while, he would pronounce the Iqama for the `Isha' prayer and offer two rak`at and perform Taslim.
He never prayed any Nawafil in between the two prayers or after the `Isha' prayers, till he got up in the middle of the night (for Tahajjud prayer)."
Hadith - 30
Narrated Anas bin Malik: Whenever the Prophet (ﷺ) started a journey before noon, he used to delay the Zuhr prayer till the time of `Asr and then offer them together; and if the sun declined (at noon) he used to offer the Zuhr prayer and then ride (for the journey).
Hadith - 31
Narrated Anas bin Malik: Whenever the Prophet (ﷺ) started the journey before noon, he used to delay the Zuhr prayer till the time for the `Asr prayer, and then he would dismount and pray them together; and whenever the sun declined before he started the journey, he used to offer the Zuhr prayer and then ride (for the journey).
Hadith - 32
Narrated Anas bin Malik: Whenever the Prophet (ﷺ) started on a journey before noon, he used to delay the Zuhr prayer till the time for the 'Asr prayer, and then he would dismount and offer them together; and whenever the sun declined before he started on a journey, he used to offer the Zuhr prayer and then ride (for journey).
Hadith - 33
Narrated `Aisha: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) prayed in his house while sitting during his illness, and the people prayed behind him standing, and he pointed to them to sit down. 
When he had finished the prayer, he said, "The Imam is to be followed, and so when he bows you should bow; and when he lifts his head you should also do the same."
Hadith - 34
Narrated Anas bin Malik: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) fell down from a horse and his right side was either injured or scratched, so we went to inquire about his health.
The time for the prayer became due, and he offered the prayer while sitting and we prayed while standing.
He said, "The Imam is to be followed; so if he says Takbir, you should also say Takbir, and if he bows you should also bow; and when he lifts his head you should also do the same, and if he says: Sami` Allahu liman hamidah (Allah hears whoever sends his praises to Him) you should say: Rabbana wa lakal Hamd (O our Lord! All the praises are for You.")
Hadith - 35
Narrated `Imran bin Husain (who had piles): I asked Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) about the praying of a man while sitting.
He said, "If he prays while standing it is better, and he who prays while sitting gets half the reward of that who prays standing; and whoever prays while lying gets half the reward of that who prays while sitting."
Hadith - 36
Narrated `Abdullah bin Buraida: `Imran bin Husain had piles. Once Abu Ma`mar narrated from `Imran bin Husain had said, "I asked the Prophet (ﷺ) about the prayer of a person while sitting.
He said, 'It is better for one to pray standing; and whoever prays sitting gets half the reward of that who prays while standing; and whoever prays while lying gets half the reward of that who prays while sitting."'
Hadith - 37
Narrated `Imran bin Husain: I had piles, so I asked the Prophet (ﷺ) about the prayer. He said, "Pray while standing and if you can't, pray while sitting, and if you cannot do even that, then pray lying on your side."
Hadith - 38
Narrated Aisha (the mother of the faithful believers): I never saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) offering the night prayer while sitting except in his old age, and then he used to recite while sitting, and whenever he wanted to bow, he would get up and recite thirty or forty verses (while standing) and then bow.
Hadith - 39
Narrated `Aisha (the mother of the faithful believers): Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (in his last days) used to pray sitting.
He would recite while sitting, and when thirty or forty verses remained from the recitation, he would get up and recite them while standing, and then he would bow and prostrate. He used to do the same in the second rak`a.
After finishing the prayer, he used to look at me, and if I was awake he would talk to me, and if I was asleep, he would lie down.