Hadith - 1
Narrated Qaza'a: I heard Abu Sa`id saying four words. He said, "I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) (saying the following narrative)." He had participated in twelve holy battles with the Prophet.
Hadith - 2
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Do not set out on a journey except for three Mosques, i.e. Al-Masjid-Al-Haram, the Mosque of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), and the Mosque of Al-Aqsa (Mosque of Jerusalem)."
Hadith - 3
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "One prayer in my Mosque is better than one thousand prayers in any other mosque, excepting Al-Masjid-Al-Haram."
Hadith - 4
Narrated Nafi`: Ibn `Umar never offered the Duha prayer except on two occasions:
(1) Whenever he reached Mecca; and he always used to reach Mecca in the forenoon. He would perform Tawaf round the Ka`ba, and then offer two rak`at at the rear of Maqam Ibrahim.
(2) Whenever he visited Quba, for he used to visit it every Saturday. When he entered the Mosque, he disliked to leave it without offering a prayer.
Ibn `Umar narrated that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to visit the Mosque of Quba (sometime) walking and (sometime) riding.
And he (i.e. Ibn `Umar) used to say, "I do only what my companions used to do, and I don't forbid anybody to pray at any time during the day or night, except that one should not intend to pray at sunrise or sunset."
Hadith - 5
Narrated `Abdullah bin Dinar: Ibn `Umar said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) used to go to the Mosque of Quba every Saturday (sometimes) walking and (sometimes) riding." `Abdullah (Ibn `Umar) used to do the same.
Hadith - 6
Narrated Ibn `Umar: The Prophet (ﷺ) used to go to the Mosque of Quba (sometimes) walking and sometimes riding. Added Nafi` (in another narration), "He then would offer two rak`at (in the Mosque of Quba)."
Hadith - 7
Narrated `Abdullah bin Zaid Al-Mazini: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Between my house and the pulpit there is a garden of the gardens of Paradise."
Hadith - 8
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Between my house and my pulpit there is a garden of the gardens of Paradise, and my pulpit is on my fountain tank (i.e. Al-Kauthar)."
Hadith - 9
Narrated Qaza'a Maula (freed slave of) Ziyad: I heard Abu Sa`id Al-khudri narrating four things from the Prophet (ﷺ) and I appreciated them very much. He said, conveying the words of the Prophet:
(1) "A woman should not go on a two day journey except with her husband or a Dhi-Mahram.
(2) No fasting is permissible on two days: `Id-ul-Fitr and `Id-ul-Adha.
(3) No prayer after two prayers, i.e. after the Fajr prayer till the sun rises, and after the `Asr prayer till the sun sets.
(4) Do not prepare yourself for a journey except to three Mosques, i.e. Al-Masjid-Al-Haram, the Mosque of Aqsa (Jerusalem) and my Mosque."