Hadith - 1
Narrated Abu Dhar: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Someone came to me from my Lord and gave me the news (or good tidings) that if any of my followers dies worshipping none (in any way) along with Allah, he will enter Paradise."
I asked, "Even if he committed illegal sexual intercourse (adultery) and theft?" He replied, "Even if he committed illegal sexual intercourse (adultery) and theft."
Hadith - 2
Narrated `Abdullah: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Anyone who dies worshipping others along with Allah will definitely enter the Fire."
I said, "Anyone who dies worshipping none along with Allah will definitely enter Paradise."
Hadith - 3
Narrated Al-Bara' bin `Azib: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) ordered us to do seven things and forbade us to do other seven.
He ordered us: to follow the funeral procession, to visit the sick, to accept invitations, to help the oppressed, to fulfill the oaths, to return the greeting and to reply to the sneezer: (saying, "May Allah be merciful on you," provided the sneezer says, "All the praises are for Allah,").
He forbade us to use silver utensils and dishes and to wear golden rings, silk (clothes), Dibaj (pure silk cloth), Qassi and Istabraq (two kinds of silk cloths).
Hadith - 4
Narrated Abu Huraira: I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "The rights of a Muslim on the Muslims are five: to respond to the salaam, visiting the sick, to follow the funeral processions, to accept an invitation, and to reply to those who sneeze."
Hadith - 5
Narrated `Aisha: Abu Bakr came riding his horse from his dwelling place in As-Sunh. He got down from it, entered the Mosque and did not speak with anybody till he came to me and went directly to the Prophet, who was covered with a marked blanket.
Abu Bakr uncovered his face. He knelt down and kissed him and then started weeping and said, "My father and my mother be sacrificed for you, O Allah's Prophet! Allah will not combine two deaths on you. You have died the death which was written for you."
Narrated Abu Salama from Ibn `Abbas: Abu Bakr came out and `Umar was addressing the people, and Abu Bakr told him to sit down, but `Umar refused. Abu Bakr again told him to sit down, but `Umar again refused.
Then Abu Bakr recited the Tashah-hud (i.e. none has the right to be worshipped but Allah, and Muhammad is Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)) and the people attended to Abu Bakr and left `Umar. 
Abu Bakr said, "Amma ba'du, whoever amongst you worshipped Muhammad, then Muhammad is dead, but whoever worshipped Allah, Allah is alive and will never die.
Allah said: Muhammad is no more than an Apostle and indeed (many) Apostles have passed away before him ... (up to the) grateful." (Surah 3: Ayah 144).
(The narrator added, "By Allah, it was as if the people never knew that Allah had revealed this verse before till Abu Bakr recited it, and then whoever heard it, started reciting it").
Hadith - 6
Narrated Kharija bin Zaid bin Thabit: Um Al-`Ala', an Ansari woman who gave the pledge of allegiance to the Prophet (ﷺ) said to me, "The emigrants were distributed amongst us by drawing lots, and we got in our share `Uthman bin Maz'un.
We made him stay with us in our house. Then he suffered from a disease which proved fatal. When he died and was given a bath and was shrouded in his clothes, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) came, I said, 'May Allah be merciful to you, O Abu As-Sa'ib! I testify that Allah has honored you'.
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'How do you know that Allah has honored him?' I replied, 'O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Let my father be sacrificed for you! On whom else shall Allah bestow His honor?'
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'No doubt, death came to him. By Allah, I too wish him good, but by Allah, I do not know what Allah will do with me, though I am Allah's Messenger (ﷺ).'
By Allah, I never attested the piety of anyone after that." Al-Laith also narrated as above.
Hadith - 7
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah: When my father was martyred, I lifted the sheet from his face and wept, and the people forbade me to do so, but the Prophet (ﷺ) did not forbid me. 
Then my aunt Fatima began weeping and the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "It is all the same whether you weep or not. The angels were shading him continuously with their wings till you shifted him (from the field)."
Hadith - 8
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) informed (the people) about the death of An-Najashi on the very day he died.
He went towards the Musalla (praying place) and the people stood behind him in rows. He said four Takbirs (i.e. offered the Funeral prayer).
Hadith - 9
Narrated Anas bin Malik: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Zaid took over the flag and was martyred. Then it was taken by Jafar who was martyred as well.
Then `Abdullah bin Rawaha took the flag but he too was martyred", and at that time the eyes of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) were full of tears.
Then Khalid bin Al-Walid took the flag without being nominated as a chief (before hand) and was blessed with victory.
Hadith - 10
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: A person died and Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to visit him. He died at night and (the people) buried him at night. In the morning they informed the Prophet (about his death).
He said, "What prevented you from informing me?" They replied, "It was night and it was a dark night, and so we disliked to trouble you." The Prophet (ﷺ) went to his grave and offered the (funeral) prayer.
Hadith - 11
Narrated Anas: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "A Muslim whose three children die before the age of puberty will be granted Paradise by Allah due to his mercy for them."
Hadith - 12
Narrated Abu Sa`id: The women requested the Prophet, "Please fix a day for us." So the Prophet (ﷺ) preached to them and said, "A woman whose three children died would be screened from the Hell Fire by them."
Hearing that, a woman asked, "If two died?" The Prophet (ﷺ) replied, "Even two (would screen her from the (Hell) Fire.)" And Abu Huraira added, "Those children should be below the age of puberty."
Hadith - 13
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "No Muslim whose three children died will go to the Fire, except for Allah's oath" (i.e. everyone has to pass over the bridge above the lake of fire).
Hadith - 14
Narrated Anas bin Malik: The Prophet (ﷺ) passed by a woman who was sitting and weeping beside a grave and said to her, "Fear Allah and be patient."
Hadith - 15
Narrated Um 'Atiyya al-Ansariya: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) came to us when his daughter died and said, "Wash her thrice or five times or more, if you see it necessary, with water and Sidr, and then apply camphor or some camphor at the end; and when you finish, notify me." 
So when we finished it, we informed him, and he gave us his waist-sheet and told us to shroud the dead body in it.
Hadith - 16
Narrated Um 'Atiyya: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) came to us and we were giving a bath to his (dead) daughter and said, "Wash her three, five or more times with water and Sidr and sprinkle camphor on her at the end; and when you finish, notify me."
So when we finished, we informed him, and he gave us his waist-sheet and told us to shroud her in it.
Aiyub said that Hafsa narrated to him a narration similar to that of Muhammad, in which it was said that the bath was to be given for an odd number of times, and the numbers 3, 5 or 7 were mentioned.
It was also said that they were to start with the right side and with the parts which were washed in ablution, and that Um 'Atiyya also mentioned, "We combed her hair and divided them in three braids."
Hadith - 17
Narrated Um 'Atiyya: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), concerning his (dead) daughter's bath, said, "Start with the right side, and the parts which are washed in ablution."
Hadith - 18
Narrated Um 'Atiyya: When we washed the deceased daughter of the Prophet, he said to us, while we were washing her, "Start the bath from the right side and from the parts which are washed in ablution."
Hadith - 19
Narrated Um 'Atiyya: The daughter of the Prophet (ﷺ) expired, and he said to us, "Wash her three or five times, or more if you see it necessary, and when you finish, notify me."
So, (when we finished) we informed him, and he unfastened his waist-sheet and told us to shroud her in it.
Hadith - 20
Narrated Muhammad: Um 'Atiyya said, "One of the daughters of the Prophet (ﷺ) died and he came out and said, 'Wash her three or five times or more, if you think it necessary, with water and Sidr, and last of all put camphor (or some camphor) and when you finish, inform me.'"
Um Atiyya added, "When we finished, we informed him, and he gave us his waist-sheet and said, 'Shroud her in it.'"
And Um 'Atiyya (in another narration) added, "The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'Wash her three, five or seven times or more, if you think it necessary.'" Hafsa said that Um 'Atiyya had also said, "We entwined her hair into three braids."
Hadith - 21
Narrated Hafsa bint Seereen: Um 'Atiyya said that they had entwined the hair of the daughter of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) in three braids. They first undid her hair, washed and then entwined it in three braids.
Hadith - 22
Narrated Ibn Seereen: Um 'Atiyya (an Ansari woman who gave the pledge of allegiance to the Prophet (ﷺ)) came to Basra to visit her son, but she could not find him.
She narrated to us, "The Prophet (ﷺ) came to us while we were giving bath to his (dead) daughter, he said: 'Wash her three times, five times or more, if you think it necessary, with water and Sidr, and last of all put camphor, and when you finish, notify me.'"
Um 'Atiyya added, "After finishing, we informed him, and he gave us his waist sheet and told us to shroud her in it, and did not say more than that."
Hadith - 23
Narrated Um 'Atiyya: We entwined the hair of the dead daughter of the Prophet (ﷺ) into three braids. Waki said that Sufyan said, "One braid was entwined in front and the other two were entwined on the sides of the head."
Hadith - 24
Narrated Um 'Atiyya: One of the daughters of the Prophet (ﷺ) expired and he came to us and said, "Wash her with Sidr (water) for odd number of times, i.e. three, five or more, if you think it necessary, and in the last, put camphor or (some camphor on her), and when you finish, notify me."
So when we finished, we informed him. He gave his waist-sheet to us (to shroud her). We entwined the hair (of the deceased girl) in three braids and made them fall at her back.
Hadith - 25
Narrated `Aisha: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was shrouded in three Yemenite white Suhuliya (pieces of cloth) of cotton, and in them there was neither a shirt nor a turban.
Hadith - 26
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: While a man was riding (his Mount) in `Arafat, he fell down from it (his Mount) and broke his neck (and died).
The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Wash him with water and Sidr and shroud him in two pieces of cloth, and neither perfume him, nor cover his head, for he will be resurrected on the Day of Resurrection saying, "Labbaik" (i.e. like a pilgrim).
Hadith - 27
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: While a man was at `Arafat (for Hajj) with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), he fell down from his Mount and broke his neck (and died).
So Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said: Wash him with water and Sidr and shroud him in two pieces of cloth, and neither perfume him nor cover his head, for Allah will resurrect him on the Day of Resurrection and he will be saying "Labbaik."
Hadith - 28
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: A man was killed by his camel while we were with the Prophet (ﷺ) and he was a Muhrim.
So the Prophet (ﷺ) said: Wash him with water and Sidr and shroud him in two pieces of cloth, and neither perfume him nor cover his head, for Allah will resurrect him on the Day of Resurrection and he will be saying "Labbaik".
Hadith - 29
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: A man fell from his Mount and died while he was with the Prophet (ﷺ) at `Arafat.
The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Wash him with water and Sidr and shroud him in two pieces of cloth, and neither perfume him nor cover his head, for he will be resurrected on the Day of Resurrection saying, "Labbaik".
Hadith - 30
Narrated Ibn `Umar: When `Abdullah bin Ubai (the chief of hypocrites) died, his son came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Please give me your shirt to shroud him in it, offer his funeral prayer and ask for Allah's forgiveness for him."
So Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) gave his shirt to him and said, "Inform me (when the funeral is ready) so that I may offer the funeral prayer."
So he informed him, and when the Prophet intended to offer the funeral prayer, `Umar took hold of his hand and said, "Has Allah not forbidden you to offer the funeral prayer for the hypocrites?"
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I have been given the choice, for Allah says: '(It does not avail) Whether you (O Muhammad) ask forgiveness for them (hypocrites), or do not ask for forgiveness for them. Even though you ask for their forgiveness seventy times, Allah will not forgive them.' (Surah 9: Ayah 80)"
So the Prophet (ﷺ) offered the funeral prayer, and on that the revelation came: "And never (O Muhammad) pray (funeral prayer) for any of them (i.e. hypocrites) that dies." (Surah 9: Ayah 84)
Hadith - 31
Narrated Jabir: The Prophet (ﷺ) came to (the grave of) `Abdullah bin Ubai after his body was buried. The body was brought out and then the Prophet (ﷺ) put his saliva over the body and clothed it in his shirt.
Hadith - 32
Narrated `Aisha: The Prophet (ﷺ) was shrouded in three pieces of cloth which were made of Suhul (a type of cotton), and neither a shirt nor a turban were used.
Hadith - 33
Narrated `Aisha: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was shrouded in three pieces of cloth, and neither a shirt nor a turban were used.
Hadith - 34
Narrated Aisha: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was shrouded in three pieces of cloth which were made of white Suhul, and neither a shirt nor a turban were used.
Hadith - 35
Narrated Sa`d from his father: Once the meal of `Abdur-Rahman bin `Auf was brought in front of him, and he said, "Mus`ab bin `Umair was martyred and he was better than I, and he had nothing except his Burd (a black square narrow dress) to be shrouded in.
Hamza or another person was martyred and he was also better than I, and he had nothing to be shrouded in, except his Burd.
No doubt, I fear that the rewards of my deeds might have been given early in this world." Then he started weeping.
Hadith - 36
Narrated Ibrahim: Once a meal was brought to `Abdur-Rahman bin `Auf and he was fasting.
He said, "Mus`ab bin `Umair was martyred and he was better than I, and was shrouded in his Burd, and when his head was covered with it, his legs became bare, and when his legs were covered, his head got uncovered.
Hamza was martyred and was better than I. Now the worldly wealth have been bestowed upon us (or said a similar thing). No doubt, I fear that the rewards of my deeds might have been given earlier in this world." Then he started weeping and left his food.
Hadith - 37
Narrated Khabbab: We emigrated with the Prophet (ﷺ) in Allah's cause, and so our reward was then surely incumbent on Allah.
Some of us died, and they did not take anything from their rewards in this world, and amongst them was Mus`ab bin `Umair; and the others were those who got their rewards. 
Mus`ab bin `Umair was martyred on the day of the Battle of Uhud, and we could get nothing except his Burd to shroud him in. And when we covered his head, his feet became bare and vice versa.
So the Prophet (ﷺ) ordered us to cover his head only and to put idhkhir (a kind of shrub) over his feet.
Hadith - 38
Narrated Sahl: A woman brought a woven Burda (sheet) having edging (border) to the Prophet. Then Sahl asked them whether they knew what is Burda, they said that Burda is a cloak and Sahl confirmed their reply.
Then the woman said, "I have woven it with my own hands and I have brought it so that you may wear it." The Prophet (ﷺ) accepted it, and at that time he was in need of it.
So he came out wearing it as his waist-sheet. A man praised it and said, "Will you give it to me? How nice it is!"
The other people said, "You have not done the right thing as the Prophet (ﷺ) is in need of it, and you have asked for it when you know that he never turns down anybody's request."
The man replied, "By Allah, I have not asked for it to wear it, but to make it my shroud." Later it was his shroud.
Hadith - 39
Narrated Um 'Atiyya: We were forbidden to accompany funeral processions, but not strictly.
Hadith - 40
Narrated Muhammad bin Seereen: One of the sons of Um 'Atiyya died, and when it was the third day, she asked for a yellow perfume and put it over her body, and said, "We were forbidden to mourn for more than three days except for our husbands."
Hadith - 41
Narrated Zainab bint Abi Salama: When the news of the death of Abu Sufyan reached from Sham, Um Habiba on the third day, asked for a yellow perfume and scented her cheeks and forearms and said, "No doubt, I would not have been in need of this, had I not heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying: "It is not legal for a woman who believes in Allah and the Last Day to mourn for more than three days for any dead person except her husband, for whom she should mourn for four months and ten days."
Hadith - 42
Narrated Zainab bint Abi Salama: I went to Um Habiba, the wife of the Prophet, who said, "I heard the Prophet saying, 'It is not legal for a woman who believes in Allah and the Last Day to mourn for any dead person for more than three days except for her husband, (for whom she should mourn) for four months and ten days'."
Later I went to Zainab bint Jahsh when her brother died; she asked for some scent, and after using it she said, "I am not in need of scent, but I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, 'It is not legal for a woman who believes in Allah and the Last Day to mourn for more than three days for any dead person except her husband, (for whom she should mourn) for four months and ten days.'"
Hadith - 43
Narrated Anas bin Malik: The Prophet (ﷺ) passed by a woman who was weeping beside a grave. He told her to fear Allah and be patient.
She said to him, "Go away, for you have not been afflicted with a calamity like mine." And she did not recognize him.
Then she was informed that he was the Prophet (ﷺ), so she went to the house of the Prophet (ﷺ) and there she did not find any guard. Then she said to him, "I did not recognize you." 
He said, "Verily, the patience is at the first stroke of a calamity."
Hadith - 44
Narrated Usama bin Zaid: The daughter of the Prophet (ﷺ) sent (a messenger) to the Prophet (ﷺ) requesting him to come as her child was dying (or was gasping), but the Prophet (ﷺ) returned the messenger and told him to convey his greeting to her and say: "Whatever Allah takes is for Him, and whatever He gives is for Him, and everything with Him has a limited fixed term (in this world) and so she should be patient and hope for Allah's reward."
She again sent for him, swearing that he should come. The Prophet (ﷺ) got up, and so did Sa`d bin 'Ubada, Mu`adh bin Jabal, Ubai bin Ka`b, Zaid bin Thabit and some other men.
The child was brought to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) while his breath was disturbed in his chest. (The sub-narrator thinks that Usama added: as if it was a leather water-skin.)
On that, the eyes of the Prophet (ﷺ) started shedding tears. Sa`d said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! What is this?"
He replied, "It is mercy which Allah has lodged in the hearts of His slaves, and Allah is merciful only to those of His slaves who are merciful (to others)."
Hadith - 45
Narrated Anas bin Malik: We were (in the funeral procession) of one of the daughters of the Prophet (ﷺ) and he was sitting by the side of the grave. I saw his eyes shedding tears.
He said, "Is there anyone among you who did not have sexual relations with his wife last night?" Abu Talha replied in the affirmative.
And so the Prophet told him to get down in the grave. And so he got down in her grave.
Hadith - 46
Narrated `Abdullah bin 'Ubaidullah bin Abi Mulaika: One of the daughters of `Uthman died at Mecca. We went to attend her funeral procession.
Ibn `Umar and Ibn `Abbas were also present. I sat in between them (or said, I sat beside one of them. Then a man came and sat beside me.)
`Abdullah bin `Umar said to `Amr bin `Uthman, "Will you not prohibit crying as Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) has said, 'The dead person is tortured by the crying of his relatives?" Ibn `Abbas said, "`Umar used to say so."
Then he added, narrating, "I accompanied `Umar on a journey from Mecca till we reached Al-Baida. There he saw some travelers in the shade of a Samura (a kind of forest tree). He said (to me), "Go and see who those travelers are."
So I went and saw that one of them was Suhaib. I told this to `Umar, who then asked me to call him. So I went back to Suhaib and said to him, "Depart and follow the chief of the faithful believers."
Later, when `Umar was stabbed, Suhaib came in weeping and saying, "O my brother, O my friend!" On this `Umar said to him, "O Suhaib! Are you weeping for me while the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The dead person is punished by some of the weeping of his relatives?"
Ibn `Abbas added, "When `Umar died, I told all this to Aisha and she said, 'May Allah be merciful to `Umar. By Allah, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) did not say that a believer is punished by the weeping of his relatives. But he said, Allah increases the punishment of a non-believer because of the weeping of his relatives."
Aisha further added, "The Qur'an is sufficient for you (to clear up this point) as Allah has stated: 'No burdened soul will bear another's burden.'" (Surah 35: Ayah 18).
Ibn `Abbas then said, "Only Allah makes one laugh or cry." Ibn `Umar did not say anything after that.
Hadith - 47
Narrated `Aisha (the wife of the Prophet): Once Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) passed by (the grave of) a Jewess whose relatives were weeping over her. He said, "They are weeping over her, and she is being tortured in her grave."
Hadith - 48
Narrated Abu Burda: That his father said, "When `Umar was stabbed, Suhaib started crying: O my brother! `Umar said, 'Don't you know that the Prophet (ﷺ) said: The deceased is tortured for the weeping of the living'?"
Hadith - 49
Narrated Al-Mughira: I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "Ascribing false things to me is not like ascribing false things to anyone else. Whosoever tells a lie against me intentionally, then surely let him occupy his seat in Hell-Fire."
I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "The deceased who is wailed over is tortured for that wailing."
Hadith - 50
Narrated Ibn 'Umar from his father: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The deceased is tortured in his grave for the wailing done over him." Narrated Shu'ba: The deceased is tortured for the wailing of the living ones over him.
Hadith - 51
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah: On the day of the Battle of Uhud, my father was brought and he had been mutilated (in battle) and was placed in front of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and a sheet was over him.
I went, intending to uncover my father, but my people forbade me; again I wanted to uncover him, but my people forbade me. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) gave his order and he was shifted away.
At that time, he heard the voice of a crying woman and asked, "Who is this?" They said, "It is the daughter or the sister of `Amr."
He said, "Why does she weep? (or let her stop weeping), for the angels had been shading him with their wings till he (i.e. the body of the martyr) was shifted away."
Hadith - 52
Narrated `Abdullah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "He who slaps his cheeks, tears his clothes and follows the ways and traditions of the Days of Ignorance is not one of us."
Hadith - 53
Narrated 'Amir bin Sa`d bin Abi Waqqas: That his father said, "In the year of the last Hajj of the Prophet (ﷺ), I became seriously ill and the Prophet (ﷺ) used to visit me inquiring about my health.
I told him, 'I am reduced to this state because of illness, and I am wealthy and have no inheritors except a daughter, (In this narration the name of 'Amir bin Sa`d is mentioned and in fact it is a mistake; the narrator is `Aisha bint Sa`d bin Abi Waqqas).
Should I give two-thirds of my property in charity?' He said, 'No.' I asked, 'Half?' He said, 'No.' Then he added, 'One-third, and even one-third is much.
You'd better leave your inheritors wealthy rather than leaving them poor, begging others. You will get a reward for whatever you spend for Allah's sake, even for what you put in your wife's mouth.'
I said, 'O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Will I be left alone after my companions have gone?' He said, 'If you are left behind, whatever good deeds you will do will upgrade you and raise you high.
And perhaps you will have a long life so that some people will be benefited by you while others will be harmed by you. O Allah! Complete the emigration of my companions and do not turn them renegades.'
But Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) felt sorry for poor Sa`d bin Khaula as he died in Mecca." (but Sa`d bin Abi Waqqas lived long after the Prophet (ﷺ).)
Hadith - 54
Narrated Abu Burda bin Abi Musa: Abu Musa got seriously ill, fainted and could not reply to his wife while he was lying with his head in her lap.
When he came to his senses, he said, "I am innocent of those, of whom Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was innocent. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) is innocent of a woman who cries aloud (or slaps her face), who shaves her head, and who tears off her clothes (on the falling of a calamity)."
Hadith - 55
Narrated `Abdullah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "He who slaps the cheeks, tears the clothes and follows the tradition of the Days of Ignorance is not from us."
Hadith - 56
Narrated `Abdullah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "He who slaps the cheeks, tears the clothes and follows the traditions of the Days of Ignorance is not from us."