Hadith - 57
Narrated `Aisha: When the Prophet (ﷺ) got the news of the death of Ibn Haritha, Ja`far and Ibn Rawaha, he sat down and looked sad, and I was looking at him through the chink of the door.
A man came and told him about the crying of the women of Ja`far. The Prophet (ﷺ) ordered him to forbid them.
The man went and came back, saying that he had told them but they did not listen to him. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Forbid them."
So again he went and came back, for the third time and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! By Allah, they did not listen to us at all."
(`Aisha added): Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) ordered him to go and put dust in their mouths.
I said, (to that man) "May Allah stick your nose in the dust (i.e. humiliate you)! You could neither (persuade the women to) fulfill the order of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) nor did you relieve Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) from fatigue."
Hadith - 58
Narrated Anas: When the reciters of Qur'an were martyred, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) recited Qunut for one month, and I never saw him (i.e. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)) so sad as he was on that day.
Hadith - 59
Narrated Anas bin Malik: One of the sons of Abu Talha became sick and died, and Abu Talha at that time was not at home. When his wife saw that he was dead, she prepared him (washed and shrouded him) and placed him somewhere in the house.
When Abu Talha came, he asked, "How is the boy?" She said, "The child is quiet and I hope he is in peace." Abu Talha thought that she had spoken the truth.
Abu Talha passed the night, and in the morning took a bath, and when he intended to go out, she told him that his son had died.
Abu Talha offered the (morning) prayer with the Prophet (ﷺ) and informed the Prophet (ﷺ) of what happened to them. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "May Allah bless you concerning your night. (That is, may Allah bless you with good offspring)."
Sufyan said, "One of the Ansar said, 'They (i.e. Abu Talha and his wife) had nine sons and all of them became reciters of the Qur'an (by heart).'"
Hadith - 60
Narrated Anas: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The real patience is at the first stroke of a calamity."
Hadith - 61
Narrated Anas bin Malik: We went with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) to the blacksmith Abu Saif, and he was the husband of the wet-nurse of Ibrahim (the son of the Prophet).
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) took Ibrahim and kissed him and smelled him, and later we entered Abu Saif's house and at that time Ibrahim was in his last breaths, and the eyes of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) started shedding tears.
`Abdur Rahman bin `Auf said, "O Allah's Apostle, even you are weeping!" He said, "O Ibn `Auf, this is mercy."
Then he wept more and said, "The eyes are shedding tears and the heart is grieved, and we will not say except what pleases our Lord. O Ibrahim! Indeed we are grieved by your separation."
Hadith - 62
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar: Sa`d bin 'Ubada became sick and the Prophet (ﷺ) along with `Abdur Rahman bin `Auf, Sa`d bin Abi Waqqas and `Abdullah bin Mas`ud visited him to inquire about his health.
When he came to him, he found him surrounded by his household and he asked, "Has he died?" They said, "No, O Allah's Apostle."
The Prophet (ﷺ) wept and when the people saw the weeping of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) they all wept.
He said, "Will you listen? Allah does not punish for shedding tears, nor for the grief of the heart, but he punishes or bestows His Mercy because of this."
He pointed to his tongue and added, "The deceased is punished for the wailing of his relatives over him." `Umar used to beat with a stick and throw stones and put dust over the faces (of those who used to wail over the dead).
Hadith - 63
Narrated Aisha: When the news of the martyrdom of Zaid bin Haritha, Ja`far and `Abdullah bin Rawaha came, the Prophet sat down looking sad, and I was looking through the chink of the door.
A man came and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! The women of Ja`far," and then he mentioned their crying. The Prophet (ﷺ) ordered him to stop them from crying.
The man went and came back and said, "I tried to stop them but they disobeyed." The Prophet (ﷺ) ordered him for the second time to forbid them.
He went again and came back and said, "They did not listen to me, (or "us": the sub-narrator Muhammad bin Haushab is in doubt as to which is right)."
`Aisha added: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Put dust in their mouths." I said (to that man), "May Allah stick your nose in the dust (i.e. humiliate you). By Allah, you could not (stop the women from crying) to fulfill the order, besides you did not relieve Allah's Apostle from fatigue."
Hadith - 64
Narrated Um 'Atiyya: At the time of giving the pledge of allegiance to the Prophet (ﷺ) one of the conditions was that we would not wail, but it was not fulfilled except by five women, and they are Um Sulaim, Um Al-`Ala', the daughter of Abi Sabra (the wife of Mu`adh), and two other women; or the daughter of Abi Sabra and the wife of Mu`adh and another woman.
Hadith - 65
Narrated 'Amir bin Rabi`a: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Whenever you see a funeral procession, stand up till the procession goes ahead of you." Al-Humaidi added, "Till the coffin leaves you behind or is put down."
Hadith - 66
Narrated 'Amir bin Rabi`a: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If any one of you sees a funeral procession and he is not going along with it, then he should stand and remain standing till he gets behind it, or it leaves him behind, or the coffin is put down before it goes ahead of him."
Hadith - 67
Narrated Sa`id Al-Maqburi: That his father said, "While we were accompanying a funeral procession, Abu Huraira got hold of the hand of Marwan and they sat down before the coffin was put down.
Then Abu Sa`id came and took hold of Marwan's hand and said, "Get up. By Allah, no doubt this (i.e. Abu Huraira) knows that the Prophet forbade us to do that." Abu Huraira said, "He (Abu Sa`id) has spoken the truth."
Hadith - 68
Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "When you see a funeral procession, you should stand up, and whoever accompanies it should not sit till the coffin is put down."
Hadith - 69
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah: A funeral procession passed in front of us and the Prophet (ﷺ) stood up and we too stood up.
We said, 'O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! This is the funeral procession of a Jew." He said, "Whenever you see a funeral procession, you should stand up."
Hadith - 70
Narrated `Abdur Rahman bin Abi Laila: Sahl bin Hunaif and Qais bin Sa`d were sitting in the city of Al-Qadisiya. A funeral procession passed in front of them and they stood up. 
They were told that funeral procession was of one of the inhabitants of the land (i.e. of a non-believer), under the protection of Muslims.
They said, "A funeral procession passed in front of the Prophet (ﷺ) and he stood up. When he was told that it was the coffin of a Jew, he said, "Is it not a living being (soul)?"
Hadith - 71
Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "When the funeral is ready and the men carry it on their shoulders, if the deceased was righteous it will say, 'Present me (hurriedly),' and if he was not righteous, it will say, 'Woe to it (me)! Where are they taking it (me)?'
Its voice is heard by everything except man, and if he heard it he would fall unconscious."
Hadith - 72
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Hurry up with the dead body, for if it was righteous, you are forwarding it to welfare; and if it was otherwise, then you are putting off an evil thing down your necks."
Hadith - 73
Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "When a funeral is ready and the men carry the deceased on their necks (shoulders), if it was pious then it will say, 'Present me quickly', and if it was not pious, then it will say, 'Woe to it (me), where are they taking it (me)?'
And its voice is heard by everything except mankind, and if he heard it he would fall unconscious."
Hadith - 74
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) offered the funeral prayer for An-Najashi, and I was in the second or third row.
Hadith - 75
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) informed his companions about the death of An-Najashi, and then he went ahead (to lead the prayer) and the people lined up behind him in rows, and he said four Takbir.
Hadith - 76
Narrated Ash-Shaibani: Ash-Shu`bi said, "I was informed by a man who had seen the Prophet (ﷺ) going to a grave that was separate from the other graves, and he aligned the people in rows and said four Takbir."
I said, "O Abu `Amr! who narrated (that) to you"? He said, "Ibn `Abbas."
Hadith - 77
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Today a pious man from Ethiopia (i.e. An Najashi) has expired, come on to offer the funeral prayer."
(Jabir said): We lined up in rows, and after that the Prophet (ﷺ) led the prayer and we were in rows. Jabir added, "I was in the second row."
Hadith - 78
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) passed by a grave of a deceased who had been buried at night. He said, "When was this (deceased) buried?" The people said, "Yesterday." 
He said, "Why did you not inform me?" They said, "We buried him when it was dark, and so we disliked to wake you up."
He stood up and we lined up behind him. (Ibn `Abbas said): I was one of them, and the Prophet (ﷺ) offered the funeral prayer.
Hadith - 79
Narrated Ash-Shaibani: Ash-Shu`bi said, "Somebody who passed along with your Prophet (ﷺ) by a grave that was separate from the other graves informed me (saying), "The Prophet (ﷺ) led us (in the prayer) and we aligned behind him."
We said, "O Abu `Amr! Who told you this narration?" He replied, "Ibn `Abbas."
Hadith - 80
Narrated Nafi`: Ibn `Umar was told that Abu Huraira said, "Whoever accompanies the funeral procession will have a reward equal to one Qirat." Ibn `Umar said, "Abu Huraira talks of a too enormous reward."
Aisha attested Abu Huraira's narration and said, "I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying like that." Ibn `Umar said, "We have lost numerous Qirats."
Hadith - 81
Narrated Abu Huraira that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Whoever attends the funeral procession till he offers the funeral prayer for it, will get a reward equal to one Qirat, and whoever accompanies it till burial, will get a reward equal to two Qirats."
It was asked, "What are two Qirats?" He replied, "Like two huge mountains."
Hadith - 82
Narrated 'Amir: Ibn `Abbas (who was at that time a boy) said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) came to a grave and the people said, 'He or she was buried yesterday.'"
Ibn `Abbas added, "We aligned behind the Prophet (ﷺ) and he led the funeral prayer of the deceased."
Hadith - 83
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) informed about the news of the death of An-Najashi (King of Ethiopia) on the day he expired. He said, "Ask Allah's forgiveness for your brother."
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) made them align in rows at the Musalla and said four Takbir.
Hadith - 84
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar: The Jew brought to the Prophet (ﷺ) a man and a woman from amongst them who had committed (adultery) illegal sexual intercourse.
He ordered both of them to be stoned (to death), near the place of offering the funeral prayers beside the mosque.
Hadith - 85
Narrated `Urwa: Aisha said, 'The Prophet (ﷺ) in his fatal illness said: "Allah cursed the Jews and the Christians because they took the graves of their Prophets as places for praying."'
Aisha added, "Had it not been for that, the grave of the Prophet (ﷺ) would have been made prominent, but I am afraid it might be taken (as a) place for praying."
Hadith - 86
Narrated Samura bin Jundab: I offered the funeral prayer behind the Prophet (ﷺ) for a woman who had died during childbirth, and he stood up by the middle of the coffin.
Hadith - 87
Narrated Samura bin Jundab: I offered the funeral prayer behind the Prophet (ﷺ) for a woman who had died during childbirth, and he stood up by the middle of the coffin.
Hadith - 88
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) informed us about the news of the death of An-Najashi on the day he died. He went out with us to the Musalla and we aligned in rows, and he said four Takbirs for An-Najashi's funeral prayer.
Hadith - 89
Narrated Jabir: The Prophet (ﷺ) offered the funeral prayer of As-Hama An-Najashi and said four Takbir.
Hadith - 90
Narrated Talha bin `Abdullah bin `Auf: I offered the funeral prayer behind Ibn `Abbas and he recited Al-Fatiha and said, "You should know that it (i.e. recitation of Al-Fatiha) is the tradition of the Prophet Muhammad (ﷺ)."
Hadith - 91
Narrated Sulaiman Ash-Shaibani: I heard Ash-Shu`bi saying, "I was told by a man who had passed with the Prophet (ﷺ) by a grave that was separate from the other graves that he (the Prophet (ﷺ)) led them in the prayer and they prayed behind him."
I said, "O Abu `Amr! Who narrated that to you?" He replied, "Ibn `Abbas."
Hadith - 92
Narrated Abu Huraira: A black person, a male or a female used to clean the Mosque and then died. The Prophet (ﷺ) did not know about it. One day the Prophet (ﷺ) remembered him and said, "What happened to that person?"
The people replied, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! He died." He said, "Why did you not inform me?" They said, "His story was so-and-so (i.e. regarded him as insignificant)."
He said, "Show me his grave." He then went to his grave and offered the funeral prayer.
Hadith - 93
Narrated Anas: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "When a human being is laid in his grave and his companions return and he even hears their foot steps, two angels come to him and make him sit and ask him: What did you use to say about this man, Muhammad?
He will say: "I testify that he is Allah's slave and His Apostle." Then it will be said to him, 'Look at your place in the Hell-Fire. Allah has given you a place in Paradise instead of it.'"
The Prophet (ﷺ) added, "The dead person will see both his places. But a non-believer or a hypocrite will say to the angels, 'I do not know, but I used to say what the people used to say!'
It will be said to him, 'Neither did you know nor did you take the guidance (by reciting the Qur'an).'
Then he will be hit with an iron hammer between his two ears, and he will cry and that cry will be heard by whatever approaches him except human beings and jinns."
Hadith - 94
Narrated Abu Huraira: The angel of death was sent to Moses and when he went to him, Moses slapped him severely, spoiling one of his eyes. The angel went back to his Lord, and said, "You sent me to a slave who does not want to die."
Allah restored his eye and said, "Go back and tell him (i.e. Moses) to place his hand over the back of an ox, for he will be allowed to live for a number of years equal to the number of hairs coming under his hand." (So the angel came to him and told him the same). 
Then Moses asked, "O my Lord! What will be then?" He said, "Death will be then." He said, "(Let it be) now."
He asked Allah that He bring him near the Sacred Land at a distance of a stone's throw. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Were I there, I would show you the grave of Moses by the way near the red sand hill."
Hadith - 95
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: The Prophet (ﷺ) offered the funeral prayer of a man one night after he was buried, he and his companions stood up (for the Prayer).
He had asked them about him before standing, saying, "Who is this?" They said, "He is so-and-so and was buried last night." So all of them offered the funeral prayer.
Hadith - 96
Narrated `Aisha: When the Prophet (ﷺ) became ill, some of his wives talked about a church which they had seen in Ethiopia, and it was called Mariya.
Um Salama and Um Habiba had been to Ethiopia, and both of them narrated its (the Church's) beauty and the pictures it contained.
The Prophet (ﷺ) raised his head and said, "Those are the people who, whenever a pious man dies amongst them, make a place of worship at his grave, and then they make those pictures in it. Those are the worst creatures in the Sight of Allah."
Hadith - 97
Narrated Anas: We were in the funeral procession of the daughter of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was sitting near the grave and I saw his eyes full of tears.
He said, "Is there anyone amongst you who did not have sexual relations with his wife last night?" Abu Talha replied in the affirmative.
And so Allah's Apostle told him to get down in her grave, and he got down in her grave and buried her.
Hadith - 98
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah: The Prophet (ﷺ) collected every two martyrs of Uhud in one piece of cloth, then he would ask, "Which of them had (knew) more of the Qur'an?"
When one of them was pointed out for him, he would put that one first in the grave and say, "I will be a witness on these on the Day of Resurrection."
He ordered them to be buried with their blood on their bodies, and they were neither washed nor was a funeral prayer offered for them.
Hadith - 99
Narrated `Uqba bin 'Amir: One day the Prophet (ﷺ) went out and offered the funeral prayers of the martyrs of Uhud, and then went up the pulpit and said, "I will pave the way for you as your predecessor and will be a witness on you.
By Allah! I see my Fount (Kauthar) just now and I have been given the keys of all the treasures of the earth (or the keys of the earth).
By Allah! I am not afraid that you will worship others along with Allah after my death, but I am afraid that you will fight with one another for the worldly things."
Hadith - 100
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah: The Prophet (ﷺ) buried every two martyrs of Uhud in one grave.
Hadith - 101
Narrated Jabir: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Bury them (i.e. martyrs) with their blood." (That was) On the day of the Battle of Uhud. He did not get them washed.
Hadith - 102
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) shrouded every two martyrs of Uhud in one piece of cloth, and then he would ask, "Which of them knew more Qur'an?"
When one of them was pointed out, he would put him first in the grave. He said, "I am a witness on these."
Then he ordered them to be buried with blood on their bodies. Neither did he offer their funeral prayer, nor did he get them washed.
(Jabir bin `Abdullah added): Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to ask about the martyrs of Uhud as to which of them knew more of the Qur'an."
And when one of them was pointed out as having more of it he would put him first in the grave and then his companions. (Jabir added): My father and my uncle were shrouded in one sheet.
Hadith - 103
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Allah has made Mecca a sanctuary (sacred place) and it was a sanctuary before me and will be so after me. It was made legal for me (to fight in it) for a few hours of the day.
None is allowed to uproot its thorny shrubs or to cut its trees or to chase its game or to pick up its fallen things except by a person who announces it publicly."
On that, Al-Abbas said (to the Prophet), "Except Al-Idhkhir for our goldsmiths and for our graves." And so the Prophet (ﷺ) added, "Except Al-Idhkhir."
And Abu Huraira narrated that the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Except Al-Idhkhir for our graves and houses." And Ibn `Abbas said, "For their goldsmiths and houses."
Hadith - 104
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) came to `Abdullah bin Ubai (a hypocrite) after his death and he had been laid in his pit (grave). He ordered (that he be taken out of the grave) and he was taken out.
Then he placed him on his knees and threw some of his saliva on him and clothed him in his (the Prophet's) own shirt. Allah knows better (why he did so). `Abdullah bin Ubai had given his shirt to Al-Abbas to wear.
Abu Harun said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), at that time had two shirts, and the son of `Abdullah bin Ubai said to him, 'O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Clothe my father in your shirt which has been in contact with your skin.'
Sufyan added, "Thus people think that the Prophet (ﷺ) clothed `Abdullah bin Ubai in his shirt in lieu of what he (Abdullah) had done (for Al-`Abbas, the Prophet's uncle).
Hadith - 105
Narrated Jabir: When the time of the Battle of Uhud approached, my father called me at night and said, "I think that I will be the first amongst the companions of the Prophet (ﷺ) to be martyred.
I do not leave anyone after me dearer to me than you, except Allah's Messenger's (ﷺ) soul, and I owe some debt and you should repay it and treat your sisters favorably (nicely and politely)."
So in the morning he was the first to be martyred and was buried along with another (martyr).
I did not like to leave him with the other (martyr) so I took him out of the grave after six months of his burial, and he was in the same condition as he was on the day of burial, except a slight change near his ear."
Hadith - 106
Narrated Jabir: A man was buried along with my father, and I did not like it till I took him (i.e. my father) out and buried him in a separate grave.
Hadith - 107
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah: The Prophet (ﷺ) collected every two martyrs of Uhud (in one grave) and then he would ask, "Which of them knew the Qur'an more?"
And if one of them was pointed out for him as having more knowledge, he would put him first in the Lahd. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I will be a witness on these on the Day of Resurrection."
Then he ordered them to be buried with their blood on their bodies and he did not have them washed.