Hadith - 108
Narrated Ibn `Umar: `Umar set out along with the Prophet (ﷺ) with a group of people to Ibn Saiyad, till they saw him playing with the boys near the hillocks of Bani Maghala.
Ibn Saiyad at that time was nearing his puberty and did not notice (us) until the Prophet (ﷺ) stroked him with his hand and said to him, "Do you testify that I am Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)?"
Ibn Saiyad looked at him and said, "I testify that you are the Messenger of illiterates." 
Then Ibn Saiyad asked the Prophet (ﷺ), "Do you testify that I am Allah's Messenger?" The Prophet (ﷺ) refuted it and said, "I believe in Allah and His Apostles."
Then he said (to Ibn Saiyad), "What do you think?" Ibn Saiyad answered, "True people and liars visit me." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "You have been confused as to this matter."
Then the Prophet (ﷺ) said to him, "I have kept something (in my mind) for you, (can you tell me that?)" Ibn Saiyad said, "It is Al-Dukh (the smoke)."
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Let you be in ignominy. You cannot cross your limits."
On that, `Umar said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Allow me to chop his head off." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If he is he (i.e. Dajjal), then you cannot overpower him, and if he is not, then there is no use of murdering him."
(Ibn `Umar added): Later on Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) once again went along with Ubai bin Ka`b to the date-palm trees (garden) where Ibn Saiyad was staying.
The Prophet (ﷺ) wanted to hear something from Ibn Saiyad before Ibn Saiyad could see him, and the Prophet (ﷺ) saw him lying covered with a sheet and from where his murmurs were heard.
Ibn Saiyad's mother saw Allah's Apostle while he was hiding himself behind the trunks of the date-palm trees. She addressed Ibn Saiyad, "O Saf! (and this was the name of Ibn Saiyad) Here is Muhammad." And with that Ibn Saiyad got up.
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Had this woman left him (Had she not disturbed him), then Ibn Saiyad would have revealed the reality of his case."
Hadith - 109
Narrated Anas: A young Jewish boy used to serve the Prophet (ﷺ) and he became sick. So the Prophet (ﷺ) went to visit him.
He sat near his head and asked him to embrace Islam. The boy looked at his father, who was sitting there; the latter told him to obey Abul-Qasim and the boy embraced Islam.
The Prophet (ﷺ) came out saying: "Praises be to Allah Who saved the boy from the Hell-fire."
Hadith - 110
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: My mother and I were among the weak and oppressed. I, from among the children, and my mother from among the women.
Hadith - 111
Narrated Ibn Shihab: The funeral prayer should be offered for every child, even if he were the son of a prostitute, as he was born with a true faith of Islam (i.e. to worship none but Allah Alone).
If his parents are Muslims, particularly the father, even if his mother were a non-Muslim, and if he after the delivery cries (even once) before his death (i.e. born alive) then the funeral prayer must be offered.
And if the child does not cry after his delivery (i.e. born dead) then his funeral prayer should not be offered, and he will be considered as a miscarriage.
Abu Huraira narrated that the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Every child is born with a true faith (i.e. to worship none but Allah Alone) but his parents convert him to Judaism or to Christianity or to Magianism, as an animal delivers a perfect baby animal. Do you find it mutilated?"
Then Abu Huraira recited the holy verses: 'The pure Allah's Islamic nature (true faith, i.e. to worship none but Allah Alone), with which He has created human beings.' (Surah 30: Ayah 30)
Hadith - 112
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Every child is born with a true faith of Islam (i.e. to worship none but Allah Alone) but his parents convert him to Judaism, Christianity or Magianism, as an animal delivers a perfect baby animal. Do you find it mutilated?"
Then Abu Huraira recited the holy verses: "The pure Allah's Islamic nature (true faith of Islam) (i.e. worshipping none but Allah) with which He has created human beings. No change let there be in the religion of Allah (i.e. joining none in worship with Allah). That is the straight religion (Islam), but most of men know not." (Surah 30: Ayah 30)
Hadith - 113
Narrated Sa`id bin Al-Musaiyab from his father: When the time of the death of Abu Talib approached, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) went to him and found Abu Jahl bin Hisham and `Abdullah bin Abi Umaiya bin Al-Mughira by his side.
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said to Abu Talib, "O uncle! Say: None has the right to be worshipped but Allah, a sentence with which I shall be a witness (i.e. argue) for you before Allah."
Abu Jahl and `Abdullah bin Abi Umaiya said, "O Abu Talib! Are you going to denounce the religion of `Abdul Muttalib?"
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) kept on inviting Abu Talib to say it (i.e. - None has the right to be worshipped but Allah) while they (Abu Jahl and `Abdullah) kept on repeating their statement, till Abu Talib said as his last statement that he was on the religion of `Abdul Muttalib and refused to say, 'None has the right to be worshipped but Allah.'
Then Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "I will keep on asking Allah's forgiveness for you, unless I am forbidden (by Allah) to do so."
So Allah revealed (the verse) concerning him (i.e. It is not fitting for the Prophet (ﷺ) and those who believe that they should invoke (Allah) for forgiveness for pagans, even though they be of kin, after it has become clear to them that they are companions of the fire. (Surah 9: Ayah 113))
Hadith - 114
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: The Prophet (ﷺ) once passed by two graves, and those two persons (in the graves) were being tortured.
He said, "They are being tortured not for a great thing (to avoid). One of them never saved himself from being soiled with his urine, while the other went about committing slander (to make enmity between friends).
He then took a green leaf of a date-palm tree, split it into two pieces, and fixed one on each grave.
The people said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Why have you done so?" He replied, "I hope that their punishment may be lessened till they (the leaf) become dry."
Hadith - 115
Narrated `Ali: "We were accompanying a funeral procession in Baqi-il-Gharqad. The Prophet (ﷺ) came to us and sat and we sat around him. He had a small stick in his hand, then he bent his head and started scraping the ground with it.
He then said, "There is none among you, and not a created soul, but has place either in Paradise or in Hell assigned for him, and it is also determined for him whether he will be among the blessed or wretched."
A man said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Should we not depend on what has been written for us and leave the deeds, as whoever amongst us is blessed will do the deeds of a blessed person, and whoever amongst us will be wretched, will do the deeds of a wretched person?" 
The Prophet said, "The good deeds are made easy for the blessed, and bad deeds are made easy for the wretched."
Then he recited the Verses: "As for him who gives (in charity) and is Allah-fearing and believes in the Best reward from Allah." (Surah 92: Ayat 5-6)
Hadith - 116
Narrated Thabit bin Ad-Dahhak: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Whoever intentionally swears falsely by a religion other than Islam, then he is what he has said, (e.g. if he says, 'If such thing is not true, then I am a Jew,' he is really a Jew).
And whoever commits suicide with piece of iron will be punished with the same piece of iron in the Hell Fire."
Narrated Jundab: the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "A man was inflicted with wounds and he committed suicide, and so Allah said: My slave has caused death on himself hurriedly, so I forbid Paradise for him."
Hadith - 117
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "He who commits suicide by throttling shall keep on throttling himself in the Hell Fire (forever) and he who commits suicide by stabbing himself shall keep on stabbing himself in the Hell-Fire."
Hadith - 118
Narrated `Umar bin Al-Khattab: When `Abdullah bin Ubai bin Salul died, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was called upon to offer his funeral prayer.
When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) stood up to offer the prayer, I got up quickly and said, "O Allah's Apostle! Are you going to pray for Ibn Ubai and he said so-and-so on such-and-such occasions?" And started mentioning all that he had said.
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) smiled and said, "O `Umar! Go away from me." When I talked too much he said, "I have been given the choice, and so I have chosen (to offer the prayer).
Had I known that he would be forgiven by asking for Allah's forgiveness for more than seventy times, surely I would have done so."
(`Umar added): Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) offered his funeral prayer and returned, and after a short-while the two verses of Surat Bara' were revealed: i.e. "And never (O Muhammad) pray for any of them who dies ... (to the end of the verse) rebellion." (Surah 9: Ayah 84)
(`Umar added), "Later I was astonished at my daring before Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) on that day. And Allah and His Apostle know better."
Hadith - 119
Narrated Anas bin Malik: A funeral procession passed and the people praised the deceased. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "It has been affirmed to him."
Then another funeral procession passed and the people spoke badly of the deceased. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "It has been affirmed to him".
`Umar bin Al-Khattab asked (Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)), "What has been affirmed?"
He replied, "You praised this, so Paradise has been affirmed to him; and you spoke badly of this, so Hell has been affirmed to him. You people are Allah's witnesses on earth."
Hadith - 120
Narrated Abu Al-Aswad: I came to Medina when an epidemic had broken out. While I was sitting with `Umar bin Al-Khattab, a funeral procession passed by and the people praised the deceased. `Umar said, "It has been affirmed to him."
And another funeral procession passed by and the people praised the deceased. `Umar said, "It has been affirmed to him."
A third (funeral procession) passed by and the people spoke badly of the deceased. He said, "It has been affirmed to him."
I (Abu Al-Aswad) asked, "O chief of the believers! What has been affirmed?"
He replied, "I said the same as the Prophet (ﷺ) had said, that is: if four persons testify the piety of a Muslim, Allah will grant him Paradise."
We asked, "If three persons testify his piety?" He (the Prophet) replied, "Even three." 
Then we asked, "If two?" He replied, "Even two." We did not ask him regarding one witness.
Hadith - 121
Narrated Al-Bara' bin 'Azib: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "When a faithful believer is made to sit in his grave, then (the angels) come to him, and he testifies that none has the right to be worshipped but Allah, and Muhammad is Allah's Apostle.
And that corresponds to Allah's statement: Allah will keep firm those who believe with the word that stands firm . . . (Surah 14: Ayah 27)."
Narrated Shu'ba: Same as above, and added, "Allah will keep firm those who believe ..." (Surah 14: Ayah 27) was revealed concerning the punishment of the grave.
Hadith - 122
Narrated Ibn `Umar: The Prophet (ﷺ) looked at the people of the well (the well in which the bodies of the pagans killed in the Battle of Badr were thrown) and said, "Have you found true what your Lord promised you?"
Somebody said to him, "You are addressing dead people." He replied, "You do not hear better than they, but they cannot reply."
Hadith - 123
Narrated `Aisha: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "They now realize that what I used to tell them was the truth." And Allah said, 'Verily! You cannot make the dead to hear (i.e. benefit them, and similarly the disbelievers) nor can you make the deaf hear."
Hadith - 124
Narrated Masruq: `Aisha said that a Jewess came to her and mentioned the punishment in the grave, saying to her, "May Allah protect you from the punishment of the grave."
`Aisha then asked Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) about the punishment of the grave. He said, "Yes, (there is) punishment in the grave."
`Aisha added, "After that, I never saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) but seeking refuge with Allah from the punishment in the grave in every prayer he prayed."
Hadith - 125
Narrated Asma' bint Abi Bakr: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) once stood up delivering a sermon and mentioned the trial which people will face in the grave. When he mentioned that, the Muslims started shouting loudly.
Hadith - 126
Narrated Anas bin Malik: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "When (Allah's) slave is put in his grave and his companions return and he even hears their footsteps, two angels come to him and make him sit and ask, 'What did you use to say about this man (i.e. Muhammad)?'
The faithful Believer will say, 'I testify that he is Allah's slave and His Apostle.'
Then they will say to him, 'Look at your place in the Hell Fire; Allah has given you a place in Paradise instead of it.' So he will see both his places."
(Qatada said, "We were informed that his grave would be made spacious." Then Qatada went back to the narration of Anas who said:) Whereas a hypocrite or a non-believer will be asked, "What did you use to say about this man?"
He will reply, "I do not know; but I used to say what the people used to say." So they will say to him, "Neither did you know, nor did you take the guidance (by reciting the Qur'an)."
Then he will be hit with iron hammers once, that he will send such a cry as everything near to him will hear, except Jinns and human beings.
Hadith - 127
Narrated Abi Aiyub: Once the Prophet (ﷺ) went out after sunset and heard a dreadful voice, and said, "The Jews are being punished in their graves."
Hadith - 128
Narrated Musa bin `Uqba (from the daughter of Khalid bin Sa`id bin Al-`Aas): who said that she had heard the Prophet (ﷺ) seeking refuge with Allah from the punishment in the grave.
Hadith - 129
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to invoke (Allah): "O Allah! I seek refuge with you from the punishment in the grave, and from the punishment in the Hell fire, and from the afflictions of life and death, and the afflictions of Al-Masih Ad-Dajjal."
Hadith - 130
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: The Prophet (ﷺ) once passed by two graves and said, "They (the deceased persons in those graves) are being tortured not for a great thing to avoid."
And then added, "Yes, (they are being punished for a big sin), for one of them used to go about with calumnies, while the other never saved himself from being soiled with his urine."
(Ibn `Abbas added): Then he took a green leaf of a date-palm and split it into two pieces, and fixed one piece on each grave and said, "May their punishment be abated till these (two pieces) get dry."
Hadith - 131
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "When anyone of you dies, he is shown his place both in the morning and in the evening.
If he is one of the people of Paradise; he is shown his place in it, and if he is from the people of the Hell-Fire; he is shown his place there-in.
Then it is said to him, 'This is your place till Allah resurrects you on the Day of Resurrection.'"
Hadith - 132
Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "When the funeral is ready (for its burial) and the people lift it on their shoulders, then if the deceased is a righteous person he says, 'Take me ahead,' and if he is not a righteous one then he says, 'Woe to it (me)! Where are you taking it (me)?'
And his voice is audible to everything except human beings; and if they heard it they would fall down unconscious."
Hadith - 133
Narrated Anas bin Malik: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Any Muslim whose three children died before the age of puberty will be granted Paradise by Allah because of His mercy to them."
Hadith - 134
Narrated Al-Bara': When Ibrahim (the son of Prophet) expired, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "There is a wet-nurse for him in Paradise."
Hadith - 135
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was asked about the children of (Mushrikeen) pagans. The Prophet (ﷺ) replied, "Since Allah created them, He knows what sort of deeds they would have done."
Hadith - 136
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) was asked about the offspring of pagans (Mushrikeen); so he said, "Allah knows what sort of deeds they would have done."
Hadith - 137
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Every child is born with a true faith of Islam (i.e. to worship none but Allah Alone) and his parents convert him to Judaism or Christianity or Magianism, as an animal delivers a perfect baby animal. Do you find it mutilated?"
Hadith - 138
Narrated Samura bin Jundab: Whenever the Prophet (ﷺ) finished the (morning) prayer, he would face us and ask, "Who amongst you had a dream last night?"
So if anyone had seen a dream he would narrate it. The Prophet (ﷺ) would say: "MashaAllah" (An Arabic maxim meaning literally, 'What Allah wished,' and it indicates a good omen.)
One day, he asked us whether anyone of us had seen a dream. We replied in the negative. 
The Prophet said, "But I had seen (a dream) last night that two men came to me, caught hold of my hands, and took me to the Sacred Land (Jerusalem).
There, I saw a person sitting and another standing with an iron hook in his hand pushing it inside the mouth of the former till it reached the jawbone, and then tore off one side of his cheek, and then did the same with the other side; in the meantime the first side of his cheek became normal again, and then he repeated the same operation again.
I said, 'What is this?' They told me to proceed on, and we went on till we came to a man lying flat on his back, and another man standing at his head carrying a stone or a piece of rock, and crushing the head of the lying man, with that stone.
Whenever he struck him, the stone rolled away. The man went to pick it up, and by the time he returned to him, the crushed head had returned to its normal state, and the man came back and struck him again (and so on).
I said, 'Who is this?' They told me to proceed on; so we proceeded on and passed by a hole like an oven; with a narrow top and wide bottom, and the fire was kindling underneath that hole.
Whenever the fire-flame went up, the people were lifted up to such an extent that they were about to get out of it, and whenever the fire got quieter, the people went down into it, and there were naked men and women in it.
I said, 'Who is this?' They told me to proceed on. So we proceeded on till we reached a river of blood and a man was in it, and another man was standing at its bank with stones in front of him, facing the man standing in the river.
Whenever the man in the river wanted to come out, the other one threw a stone in his mouth and caused him to retreat to his original position; and so whenever he wanted to come out the other would throw a stone in his mouth, and he would retreat to his original position. 
I asked, 'What is this?' They told me to proceed on, and we did so till we reached a well-flourished green garden having a huge tree, and near its root was sitting an old man with some children.
(I saw) Another man near the tree with fire in front of him and he was kindling it up. 
Then they (i.e. my two companions) made me climb up the tree and made me enter a house, better than which I have ever seen.
In it were some old men and young men, women and children. Then they took me out of this house and made me climb up the tree and made me enter another house that was better and superior (to the first) containing old and young people.
I said to them (i.e. my two companions), 'You have made me ramble all the night. Tell me all about that I have seen.'
They said, 'Yes. As for the one whose cheek you saw being torn away, he was a liar and he used to tell lies, and the people would report those lies on his authority till they spread all over the world. So, he will be punished like that till the Day of Resurrection. 
The one whose head you saw being crushed is the one whom Allah had given the knowledge of Qur'an (i.e. knowing it by heart) but he used to sleep at night (i.e. he did not recite it then) and did not use to act upon it (i.e. upon its orders etc) by day; and so this punishment will go on till the Day of Resurrection.
And those you saw in the hole (like oven) were adulterers (those men and women who commit illegal sexual intercourse).
And those you saw in the river of blood were those dealing in Riba (usury).
And the old man who was sitting at the base of the tree was Abraham, and the little children around him were the offspring of the people.
And the one who was kindling the fire was Malik, the gatekeeper of the Hell-fire.
And the first house in which you have gone was the house of the common believers, and the second house was of the martyrs.
I am Gabriel and this is Michael. Raise your head.' I raised my head and saw a thing like a cloud over me. They said, 'That is your place.' I said, 'Let me enter my place.'
They said, 'You still have some life which you have not yet completed, and when you complete (that remaining portion of your life) you will then enter your place.'"
Hadith - 139
Narrated Hisham's father: Aisha said, "I went to Abu Bakr (during his fatal illness) and he asked me, 'In how many garments was the Prophet (ﷺ) shrouded?'
She replied, 'In three Suhuliya pieces of white cloth of cotton, and there was neither a shirt nor a turban among them.'
Abu Bakr further asked her, 'On which day did the Prophet die?' She replied, 'He died on Monday.'
He asked, 'What is today?' She replied, 'Today is Monday.' He added, 'I hope I shall die sometime between this morning and tonight.'
Then he looked at a garment that he was wearing during his illness, and it had some stains of saffron. Then he said, 'Wash this garment of mine and add two more garments and shroud me in them.'
I said, 'This is worn out.' He said, 'A living person has more right to wear new clothes than a dead one; the shroud is only for the body's pus.'
He did not die till it was the night of Tuesday and was buried before the morning.
Hadith - 140
Narrated Aisha: A man said to the Prophet (ﷺ), "My mother died suddenly, and I thought that if she had lived she would have given alms. So, if I give alms now on her behalf, will she get the reward?" The Prophet (ﷺ) replied in the affirmative.
Hadith - 141
Narrated `Aisha: During his sickness, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was asking repeatedly, "Where am I today? Where will I be tomorrow?" And I was waiting for the day of my turn (impatiently).
Then, when my turn came, Allah took his soul away (in my lap) between my chest and arms and he was buried in my house.
Hadith - 142
Narrated `Aisha: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) in his fatal illness said, "Allah cursed the Jews and the Christians, for they built the places of worship at the graves of their prophets." 
And if that had not been the case, then the Prophet's grave would have been made prominent before the people. So (the Prophet (ﷺ)) was afraid, or the people were afraid that his grave might be taken as a place for worship.
Hadith - 143
Narrated Abu Bakr bin `Aiyash: Sufyan at-Tammar told me that he had seen the grave of the Prophet (ﷺ) elevated and convex.
Hadith - 144
Narrated `Urwa: When the wall fell on them (i.e. graves) during the caliphate of Al-Walid bin `Abdul Malik, the people started repairing it, and a foot appeared to them. The people got scared and thought that it was the foot of the Prophet.
No one could be found who could tell them about it till I (`Urwa) said to them, "By Allah, this is not the foot of the Prophet (ﷺ), but it is the foot of `Umar.
Hadith - 145
Aisha narrated that she made a will to `Abdullah bin Zubair, "Do not bury me with them (the Prophet (ﷺ) and his two companions) but bury me with my companions (wives of the Prophet (ﷺ)) in Al-Baqi, as I would not like to be looked upon as better than I really am (by being buried near the Prophet)."
Hadith - 146
Narrated `Amr bin Maimun Al-Audi: I saw `Umar bin Al-Khattab (when he was stabbed) saying, "O `Abdullah bin `Umar! Go to the mother of the believers Aisha and say, `Umar bin Al-Khattab sends his greetings to you,' and request her to allow me to be buried with my companions."
(So, Ibn `Umar conveyed the message to `Aisha.) She said, "I had the idea of having this place for myself, but today I prefer him (`Umar) to myself (and allow him to be buried there)."
When `Abdullah bin `Umar returned, `Umar asked him, "What (news) do you have?" He replied, "O chief of the believers! She has allowed you (to be buried there)."
On that `Umar said, "Nothing was more important to me than to be buried in that (sacred) place.
So, when I expire, carry me there and pay my greetings to her (`Aisha ) and say, `Umar bin Al-Khattab asks permission; and if she gives permission, then bury me (there) and if she does not, then take me to the graveyard of the Muslims.
I do not think any person has more right for the caliphate than those with whom Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was always pleased till his death.
And whoever is chosen by the people after me will be the caliph, and you people must listen to him and obey him," and then he mentioned the name of `Uthman, `Ali, Talha, Az-Zubair, `Abdur-Rahman bin `Auf and Sa`d bin Abi Waqqas.
By this time a young man from Ansar came and said, "O chief of the believers! Be happy with Allah's glad tidings.
The grade which you have in Islam is known to you, then you became the caliph and you ruled with justice, and then you have been awarded martyrdom after all this." `Umar replied, "O son of my brother! Would that all that privileges will counterbalance (my short comings), so that I neither lose nor gain anything.
I recommend my successor to be good to the early emigrants and realize their rights, and to protect their honor and sacred things.
And I also recommend him to be good to the Ansar who before them, had homes (in Medina) and had adopted the Faith.
He should accept the good of the righteous among them and should excuse their wrongdoers. 
I recommend him to abide by the rules and regulations concerning the Dhimmis (protectees) of Allah and His Apostle, to fulfill their contracts completely and fight for them, and not to tax (overburden) them beyond their capabilities."
Hadith - 147
Narrated `Aisha: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Don't abuse the dead, because they have reached the result of what they forwarded."
Hadith - 148
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: Abu Lahab, may Allah curse him, once said to the Prophet (ﷺ), "Perish you all the day." Then the Divine Inspiration came: "Perish the hands of Abi Lahab! And perish he." (Surah 111: Ayah 1)