Hadith - 1
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Abbas: Al-Fadl (his brother) was riding behind Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and a woman from the tribe of Khath'am came, and Al-Fadl started looking at her and she started looking at him. The Prophet (ﷺ) turned Al-Fadl's face to the other side.
The woman said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! The obligation of Hajj enjoined by Allah on His devotees has become due on my father and he is old and weak, and he cannot sit firm on the Mount; may I perform Hajj on his behalf?"
The Prophet (ﷺ) replied, "Yes, you may." That happened during the Hajj-al-Wida (of the Prophet (ﷺ)).
Hadith - 2
Narrated Ibn `Umar: I saw that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to ride on his Mount at Dhul Hulaifa and used to start saying "Labbaik" when the Mount stood upright.
Hadith - 3
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) started saying "Labbaik" from Dhul-Hulaifa when his Mount stood upright carrying him.
Hadith - 4
Narrated 'Aishah: The Prophet (ﷺ) sent my brother 'Abdur Rahman with me to Tan'im for the 'Umra, and he made me ride on the packsaddle (of a camel). 'Umar said, "Be ready to travel for Hajj as it (Hajj) is one of the two kind of Jihad."
Hadith - 5
Narrated Thumama bin `Abdullah bin Anas: Anas performed the Hajj on a packsaddle and he was not a miser. Anas said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) performed Hajj on a packsaddle and the same Mount was carrying his baggage too."
Hadith - 6
Narrated Al-Qasim bin Muhammad: `Aisha said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! You performed `Umra but I did not." He said, "O `Abdur-Rahman! Go along with your sister and let her perform `Umra from Tan`im."
`Abdur-Rahman made her ride over the packsaddle of a she-camel and she performed `Umra.
Hadith - 7
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) was asked, "Which is the best deed?" He said, "To believe in Allah and His Apostle."
He was then asked, "Which is the next (in goodness)?" He said, "To participate in Jihad in Allah's Cause."
He was then asked, "Which is the next?" He said, "To perform Hajj-Mabrur."
Hadith - 8
Narrated `Aisha (the mother of the faithful believers): I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! We consider Jihad as the best deed." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The best Jihad (for women) is Hajj Mabrur."
Hadith - 9
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Whoever performs Hajj for Allah's pleasure and does not have sexual relations with his wife, and does not do evil or sins, then he will return (after Hajj free from all sins) as if he were born anew."
Hadith - 10
Narrated Zaid bin Jubair: I went to visit `Abdullah bin `Umar at his house which contained many tents made of cotton cloth and these were encircled with Suradiq (part of the tent).
I asked him from where should one assume Ihram for Umra. He said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had fixed as Miqat (singular of Mawaqit) Qarn for the people of Najd, Dhul-Hulaifa for the people of Medina, and Al-Juhfa for the people of Sham."
Hadith - 11
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: The people of Yemen used to come for Hajj, and used not to bring enough provisions with them and used to say that they depend on Allah.
On their arrival in Medina they used to beg the people, and so Allah revealed, "And take a provision (with you) for the journey, but the best provision is the fear of Allah." (Surah 2: Ayah 197)
Hadith - 12
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) made Dhul-Hulaifa as the Miqat for the people of Medina; Al-Juhfa for the people of Sham; Qarn-al-Manazil for the people of Najd; and Yalamlam for the people of Yemen; and these Mawaqit are for the people at those very places, and besides them for those who come through those places with the intention of performing Hajj and `Umra; and whoever is living within these boundaries can assume Ihram from the place he starts, and the people of Mecca can assume Ihram from Mecca.
Hadith - 13
Narrated Nafi`: `Abdullah bin `Umar said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, 'The people of Medina should assume Ihram from Dhul-Hulaifa; the people of Sham from Al-Juhfa; and the people of Najd from Qarn."
And `Abdullah added, "I was informed that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had said, 'The people of Yemen should assume Ihram from Yalamlam.'"
Hadith - 14
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had fixed Dhul Hulaifa as the Miqat for the people of Medina; Al-Juhfa for the people of Sham; and Qarn Ul-Manazil for the people of Najd; and Yalamlam for the people of Yemen.
So, these (above mentioned) are the Mawaqit for all those living at those places, and besides them for those who come through those places with the intention of performing Hajj and `Umra, and whoever lives within these places should assume Ihram from his dwelling place, and similarly the people of Mecca can assume Ihram from Mecca.
Hadith - 15
Narrated Salim from his father who said: "The Prophet (ﷺ) had fixed the Mawaqit as follows: The Miqat for the people of Medina is Dhul-Hulaifa; for the people of Sham is Mahita; (i.e. Al-Juhfa); and for the people of Najd is Qarn.
And said Ibn `Umar, "They claim, but I did not hear personally, that the Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'The Miqat for the people of Yemen is Yalamlam.'"
Hadith - 16
Narrated Salim bin `Abdullah from his father: I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "The Miqat for the people of Medina is Dhul-Hulaifa; for the people of Sham is Mahita; (i.e. Al-Juhfa); and for the people of Najd is Qarn."
And said Ibn `Umar, 'They claim, but I did not hear personally, that the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The Miqat for the people of Yemen is Yalamlam."'
Hadith - 17
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: The Prophet (ﷺ) fixed Dhul-Hulaifa as the Miqat for the people of Medina, Al-Juhfa for the people of Sham, Yalamlam for the people of Yemen, and Qarn for the people of Najd.
And these Mawaqit are for those living at those very places, and besides them for those who come through those places with the intention of performing Hajj and Umra; and whoever is living inside these places can assume Ihram from his own dwelling place, and the people of Mecca can assume Ihram from Mecca.
Hadith - 18
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: The Prophet (ﷺ) fixed Dhul-Hulaifa as the Miqat for the people of Medina, Al-Juhfa for the people of Sham, Qarn-al-Manazil for the people of Najd, and Yalamlam for the people of Yemen; and these Mawaqit are for those living at those very places, and besides them for those who come through them with the intention of performing Hajj and Umra; and whoever is living within these Mawaqit should assume Ihram from where he starts, and the people of Mecca can assume Ihram from Mecca.
Hadith - 19
Narrated Ibn `Umar: When these two towns (Basra and Kufa) were captured, the people went to `Umar and said, "O the Chief of the faithful believers! The Prophet (ﷺ) fixed Qarn as the Miqat for the people of Najd, it is beyond our way and it is difficult for us to pass through it."
He said, "Take as your Miqat a place situated opposite to Qarn on your usual way." So, he fixed Dhatu-Irq (as their Miqat).
Hadith - 20
Narrated Nafi`: `Abdullah bin `Umar said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) made his camel sit (i.e. he dismounted) at Al-Batha' in Dhul-Hulaifa and offered the prayer." `Abdullah bin `Umar used to do the same.
Hadith - 21
Narrated Ibn `Umar: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to go (for Hajj) via Ash-Shajara way and return via Muarras way; and no doubt, whenever Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) went to Mecca, he used to offer the prayer in the Mosque of Ash-Shajara; and on his return, he used to offer the prayer at Dhul-Hulaifa in the middle of the valley, and pass the night there till morning.
Hadith - 22
Narrated `Umar: In the valley of Al-`Aqiq, I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "Tonight a messenger came to me from my Lord and asked me to pray in this blessed valley, and to assume Ihram for Hajj and `Umra together."
Hadith - 23
Narrated Musa bin `Uqba: Salim bin `Abdullah's father said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) said that while resting in the bottom of the valley at Muarras in Dhul-Hulaifa, he had been addressed in a dream: 'You are verily in a blessed valley.'"
Salim made us to dismount from our camels at the place where `Abdullah used to dismount, aiming at the place where Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had rested, and it was below the Mosque situated in the middle of the valley in between them (the residence) and the road.
Hadith - 24
Narrated Safwan bin Ya'la: Ya'la said to 'Umar, "Show me the Prophet (ﷺ) when he is being inspired Divinely." While the Prophet (ﷺ) was at Ji'rana (in the company of some of his Companions) a person came and asked, "O Allah's Messenger! What is your verdict regarding that person who assumes Ihram for 'Umra and is scented with perfume?"
The Prophet (ﷺ) kept quiet for a while and he was Divinely inspired (then). 'Umar beckoned Ya'la. So he came, and Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was shaded with sheet.
Ya'la put his head in and saw that the face of Allah's Messenger was red and he was snoring. When the state of the Prophet (ﷺ) was over, he (ﷺ) asked, "Where is the person who asked about 'Umra?"
Then that person was brought and the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Wash the perfume off your body thrice and take off the cloak, and do the same in 'Umra as you do in Hajj."
Hadith - 25
Narrated Sa`id bin Jubair: Ibn `Umar used to oil his hair.
I told that to Ibrahim, who said, "What do you think about this statement: Narrated Aswad from `Aisha: As if I were now observing the glitter of the scent in the parting of the hair of the Prophet (ﷺ) while he was Muhrim"?
Hadith - 26
Narrated `Aisha (the wife of the Prophet (ﷺ)): I used to scent Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) when he wanted to assume Ihram, and also on finishing Ihram before the Tawaf round the Ka`ba (Tawaf-al-ifada).
Hadith - 27
Narrated Salim from his father: I heard that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) assumed Ihram with his hair matted together.
Hadith - 28
Narrated Salim bin `Abdullah: I heard my father saying, "Never did Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) assume Ihram except at the Mosque, that is, at the Mosque of Dhul-Hulaifa."
Hadith - 29
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar: A man asked, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! What kind of clothes should a Muhrim wear?"
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) replied, "He should not wear a shirt, a turban, trousers, a headcloak or leather socks except if he can find no slippers, he then may wear leather socks after cutting off what might cover the ankles.
And he should not wear clothes which are scented with saffron or Wars (kinds of Perfumes)."
Hadith - 30
Narrated 'Ubaidullah bin `Abdullah: Ibn `Abbas' said, "Usama rode behind Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) from `Arafat to Al-Muzdalifa; and then Al-Fadl rode behind Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) from Al-Muzdalifa to Mina."
Ibn `Abbas added, "Both of them said, 'The Prophet kept on reciting Talbiya till he did the Rami of Jamrat-Al-`Aqaba.'"
Hadith - 31
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Abbas: The Prophet (ﷺ), with his companions, started from Medina after combing and oiling his hair and putting on two sheets of Ihram (upper body cover and waist cover).
He did not forbid anyone to wear any kind of sheets except the ones colored with saffron, because they may leave the scent on the skin.
And so in the early morning, the Prophet (ﷺ) mounted his Mount while in Dhul-Hulaifa and set out till they reached Baida', where he and his companions recited Talbiya, and then they did the ceremony of Taqlid (which means to put the colored garlands around the necks of the Budn (camels for sacrifice)).
And all that happened on the 25th of Dhul-Qa'da. And when he reached Mecca on the 4th of Dhul-Hijja he performed the Tawaf round the Ka`ba and performed the Tawaf between Safa and Marwa.
And as he had a Badana and had garlanded it, he did not finish his Ihram. He proceeded towards the highest places of Mecca near Al-Hajun and he was assuming the Ihram for Hajj, and did not go near the Ka`ba after he performed Tawaf (round it) till he returned from `Arafat.
Then he ordered his companions to perform the Tawaf round the Ka`ba and then the Tawaf of Safa and Marwa, and to cut short the hair of their heads and to finish their Ihram. And that was only for those people who had not garlanded Budn.
Those who had their wives with them were permitted to contact them (have sexual intercourse), and similarly perfume and (ordinary) clothes were permissible for them.
Hadith - 32
Narrated Anas bin Malik: The Prophet (ﷺ) offered four rak`at in Medina, and then two rak`at at Dhul Hulaifa and then passed the night at Dhul-Hulaifa till it was morning, and when he mounted his Mount and it stood up, he started to recite Talbiya.
Hadith - 33
Narrated Abu Qilaba: Anas bin Malik said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) offered four rak`at of the Zuhr prayer in Medina and two rak`at of `Asr prayer at Dhul-Hulaifa." I think that the Prophet (ﷺ) passed the night there till morning.
Hadith - 34
Narrated Anas: The Prophet (ﷺ) offered four rak`at of the Zuhr prayer in Medina and two rak`at of the `Asr prayer in Dhul-Hulaifa, and I heard them (the companions of the Prophet) reciting Talbiya together loudly to the extent of shouting.
Hadith - 35
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar: The Talbiya of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was (what means): "I respond to Your call O Allah, I respond to Your call, and I am obedient to Your orders, You have no partner, I respond to Your call. All the praises and blessings are for You, All the sovereignty is for You, And You have no partners with You."
Hadith - 36
Narrated `Aisha: I know how the Prophet (ﷺ) used to say (Talbiya) and it was (what means): "I respond to Your call O Allah, I respond to Your call, and I am obedient to Your orders, You have no partner, I respond to Your call. All the praises and blessings are for You, All the sovereignty is for You, And You have no partners with You."
Hadith - 37
Narrated Anas bin Malik: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) offered four rak`at of Zuhr prayer at Medina and we were in his company, and two rak`at of the `Asr prayer at Dhul-Hulaifa, and then passed the night there till it was dawn; then he rode, and when he reached Al-Baida', he praised and glorified Allah and said Takbir (i.e. Alhamdulillah and SubhanAllah and Allahu-Akbar).
Then he and the people along with him recited Talbiya with the intention of performing Hajj and Umra.
When we reached (Mecca) he ordered us to finish the Ihram (after performing the Umra) (only those who had no Hadi (animal for sacrifice) with them were asked to do so) till the day of Tarwiya, that is 8th Dhul-Hijja, when they assumed Ihram for Hajj.
The Prophet sacrificed many camels (slaughtering them) with his own hands while standing. While Allah's Apostle was in Medina, he sacrificed two horned rams black and white in color in the Name of Allah.
Hadith - 38
Narrated Ibn `Umar: The Prophet (ﷺ) recited Talbiya when he had mounted his Mount and was ready to set out.
Hadith - 39
Narrated Nafi': 'Whenever Ibn 'Umar finished his morning Salat at Dhul-Hulaifa, he would get his Rahila (mount) prepared. Then, he would ride on it, and after it had stood up straight (ready to set out), he would face Al-Qiblah (the Kabah at Makkah) while sitting (on his mount) and recite Talbiya.
When he had reached the boundaries of the Haram (or Makkah), he would stop recitation of Talbiya till he reached Dhi-Tuwa (near Makkah) where he would pass the night till it was dawn.
After offering the morning Salat, he would take a bath. He claimed that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had done the same.
Hadith - 40
Narrated Nafi`: Whenever Ibn `Umar intended to go to Mecca, he used to oil himself with a sort of oil that had no pleasant smell, then he would go to the Mosque of Al-Hulaifah and offer the prayer, and then ride.
When he mounted well on his Mount and the Mount stood up straight, he would proclaim the intention of assuming Ihram, and he used to say that he had seen the Prophet (ﷺ) doing the same.
Hadith - 41
Narrated Mujahid: I was in the company of Ibn `Abbas and the people talked about Ad-Dajjal and said, "Ad-Dajjal will come with the word Kafir (non-believer) written in between his eyes."
On that Ibn `Abbas said, "I have not heard this from the Prophet (ﷺ) but I heard him saying, 'As if I saw Moses just now entering the valley reciting Talbyia.'"
Hadith - 42
Narrated Aisha (the wife of the Prophet (ﷺ)): We set out with the Prophet (ﷺ) in his last Hajj and we assumed Ihram for Umra. The Prophet (ﷺ) then said, "Whoever has the Hadi with him should assume Ihram for Hajj along with `Umra, and should not finish the Ihram till he finishes both."
I was menstruating when I reached Mecca, and so I neither did Tawaf round the Ka`ba nor Tawaf between Safa and Marwa. I complained about that to the Prophet (ﷺ) on which he replied, "Undo and comb your head hair, and assume Ihram for Hajj (only) and leave the Umra." So, I did so.
When we had performed the Hajj, the Prophet sent me with my brother `Abdur-Rahman bin Abu Bakr to Tan`im. So I performed the `Umra. The Prophet (ﷺ) said to me, "This `Umra is instead of your missed one."
Those who had assumed Ihram for `Umra (Hajj-at-Tamattu) performed Tawaf round the Ka`ba and between Safa and Marwa and then finished their Ihram. After returning from Mina, they performed another Tawaf (between Safa and Marwa).
Those who had assumed Ihram for Hajj and `Umra together (Hajj-al-Qiran) performed only one Tawaf (between Safa and Marwa).
Hadith - 43
Narrated `Ata: Jabir said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) ordered `Ali to keep on assuming his Ihram." The narrator then informed about the narration of Suraqa.
Hadith - 44
Narrated Anas bin Malik: `Ali came to the Prophet (ﷺ) from Yemen (to Mecca). The Prophet (ﷺ) asked `Ali, "With what intention have you assumed Ihram?" 
`Ali replied, "I have assumed Ihram with the same intention as that of the Prophet." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If I had not the Hadi with me, I would have finished the Ihram."
Muhammad bin Bakr narrated extra from Ibn Juraij, "The Prophet (ﷺ) said to `Ali, "With what intention have you assumed the Ihram, O `Ali?"
He replied, "With the same (intention) as that of the Prophet." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Have a Hadi and keep your Ihram as it is."
Hadith - 45
Narrated Abu Musa: The Prophet (ﷺ) sent me to some people in Yemen and when I returned, I found him at Al-Batha. He asked me, "With what intention have you assumed Ihram (i.e. for Hajj or for Umra or for both?")
I replied, "I have assumed Ihram with an intention like that of the Prophet." He asked, "Have you a Hadi with you?" I replied in the negative.
He ordered me to perform Tawaf round the Ka`ba and between Safa and Marwa and then to finish my Ihram. I did so, and went to a woman from my tribe who combed my hair or washed my head.
Then, when `Umar came (i.e. became Caliph) he said, 'If we follow Allah's Book, it orders us to complete Hajj and Umra; as Allah says: "Perform the Hajj and Umra for Allah." (Surah 2: Ayah 196).
And if we follow the tradition of the Prophet (ﷺ) who did not finish his Ihram till he sacrificed his Hadi.'
Hadith - 46
Narrated Al-Qasim bin Muhammad: 'Aisha said, "We set out with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) in the months of Hajj, and (in) the nights of Hajj, and at the time and places of Hajj and in a state of Hajj.
We dismounted at Sarif (a village six miles from Mecca). The Prophet (ﷺ) then addressed his companions and said, "Anyone who has not got the Hadi and likes to do Umra instead of Hajj may do so (i.e. Hajj-al-Tamattu`), and anyone who has got the Hadi should not finish the Ihram after performing `Umra (i.e. Hajj-al-Qiran)."
Aisha added, "The companions of the Prophet (ﷺ) obeyed the above (order) and some of them (i.e. who did not have Hadi) finished their Ihram after Umra." 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and some of his companions were resourceful and had the Hadi with them, they could not perform Umra (alone) (but had to perform both Hajj and Umra with one Ihram).
Aisha added, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) came to me and saw me weeping and said, "What makes you weep, O Hantah?" I replied, "I have heard your conversation with your companions and I cannot perform the Umra."
He asked, 'What is wrong with you?' I replied, 'I do not offer the prayers (i.e. I have my menses).'
He said, 'It will not harm you, for you are one of the daughters of Adam, and Allah has written for you (this state) as He has written it for them. Keep on with your intentions for Hajj and Allah may reward you that."
Aisha further added, "Then we proceeded for Hajj till we reached Mina and I became clean from my menses. Then I went out from Mina and performed Tawaf round the Ka`ba."
Aisha added, "I went along with the Prophet (ﷺ) in his final departure (from Hajj) till he dismounted at Al-Muhassab (a valley outside Mecca), and we too, dismounted with him."
He called `Abdur-Rahman bin Abu Bakr and said to him, 'Take your sister outside the sanctuary of Mecca and let her assume Ihram for `Umra, and when you have finished `Umra, return to this place and I will wait for you both till you both return to me.'"
Aisha added, "So we went out of the sanctuary of Mecca and after finishing from the `Umra and the Tawaf, we returned to the Prophet (ﷺ) at dawn.
He (ﷺ) said, 'Have you performed the `Umra?' We replied in the affirmative. So he announced the departure amongst his companions and the people set out for the journey, and the Prophet (ﷺ) too left for Medina.
Hadith - 47
Narrated Al-Aswad: 'Aisha said, "We went out with the Prophet (from Medina) with the intention of performing Hajj only, and when we reached Mecca we performed Tawaf round the Ka`ba, and then the Prophet (ﷺ) ordered those who had not driven the Hadi along with them to finish their Ihram.
So the people who had not driven the Hadi along with them finished their Ihram. The Prophet's wives, too, had not driven the Hadi with them, so they too, finished their Ihram."
`Aisha added, "I got my menses and could not perform Tawaf round the Ka`ba." So when it was the night of Hasba (i.e. when we stopped at Al-Muhassab), I said, 'O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Everyone is returning after performing Hajj and `Umra, but I am returning after performing Hajj only.'
He said, 'Didn't you perform Tawaf round the Ka`ba the night we reached Mecca?' I replied in the negative.
He said, 'Go with your brother to Tan`im and assume the Ihram for `Umra, (and after performing it) come back to such-and-such a place.'
On that, Safiya said, 'I feel that I will detain you all.' The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'O 'Aqra Halqa! Didn't you perform Tawaf of the Ka`ba on the day of sacrifice? (i.e. Tawaf-al-ifada)'
Safiya replied in the affirmative. He said, (to Safiya), 'There is no harm for you to proceed on with us.'"
`Aisha added, "(After returning from `Umra) the Prophet (ﷺ) met me while he was ascending (from Mecca) and I was descending to it, or I was ascending and he was descending."
Hadith - 48
Narrated `Aisha: We set out with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (to Mecca) in the year of the Prophet's Last Hajj. Some of us had assumed Ihram for `Umra only, some for both Hajj and `Umra, and others for Hajj only.
Allah's Apostle assumed Ihram for Hajj. So whoever had assumed Ihram for Hajj or for both Hajj and `Umra did not finish the Ihram till the day of sacrifice.
Hadith - 49
Narrated Marwan bin Al-Hakam: I saw `Uthman and `Ali. `Uthman used to forbid people to perform Hajj-at-Tamattu` and Hajj-al-Qiran (Hajj and `Umra together), and when `Ali saw (this act of `Uthman), he assumed Ihram for Hajj and `Umra together saying, "Labbaik for `Umra and Hajj," and said, "I will not leave the tradition of the Prophet (ﷺ) on the saying of somebody."
Hadith - 50
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: The people (of the Pre-Islamic Period) used to think that to perform `Umra during the months of Hajj was one of the major sins on earth.
And also used to consider the month of Safar as a forbidden (i.e. sacred) month and they used to say, "When the wounds of the camel's back heal up (after they return from Hajj) and the signs of those wounds vanish and the month of Safar passes away, then (at that time) `Umra is permissible for the one who wishes to perform it."
In the morning of the 4th of Dhul-Hijja, the Prophet (ﷺ) and his companions reached Mecca, assuming Ihram for Hajj, and he ordered his companions to make their intentions of the Ihram for `Umra only (instead of Hajj) so they considered his order as something great and were puzzled, and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! What kind (of finishing) of Ihram is allowed?"
The Prophet (ﷺ) replied, "Finish the Ihram completely like a non-Muhrim (you are allowed everything)."
Hadith - 51
Narrated Abu Musa: I came to the Prophet (from Yemen and was assuming Ihram for Hajj) and he ordered me to finish the Ihram (after performing the `Umra).
Hadith - 52
Narrated Ibn `Umar: Hafsa, the wife of the Prophet (ﷺ), said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Why have the people finished their Ihram after performing `Umra, but you have not finished your Ihram after performing `Umra?"
He replied, "I have matted my hair and garlanded my Hadi. So I will not finish my Ihram till I have slaughtered (my Hadi)."
Hadith - 53
Narrated Shu`ba: Abu Jamra Nasr bin `Imran Ad-Duba'i said, "I intended to perform Hajj-at-Tamattu` and the people advised me not to do so. I asked Ibn `Abbas regarding it, and he ordered me to perform Hajj-at-Tamattu'.
Later I saw in a dream someone saying to me, 'Hajj-Mabrur (Hajj performed in accordance with the Prophet's tradition without committing sins and accepted by Allah) and an accepted `Umra.'
So I told that dream to Ibn `Abbas. He said, 'This is the tradition of Abul-Qasim.'
Then he said to me, 'Stay with me and I shall give you a portion of my property.'" I (Shu`ba) asked, "Why (did he invite you)?" He (Abu Jamra) said, "Because of the dream which I had seen."
Hadith - 54
Narrated Abu Shihab: I left for Mecca for Hajj-at-Tamattu` assuming Ihram for `Umra. I reached Mecca three days before the day of Tarwiya (8th Dhul-Hijja).
Some people of Mecca said to me, "Your Hajj will be like the Hajj performed by the people of Mecca (i.e. you will lose the superiority of assuming Ihram from the Miqat)." So I went to `Ata' asking him his view about it.
He said, "Jabir bin `Abdullah narrated to me, 'I performed Hajj with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) on the day when he drove camels with him. The people had assumed Ihram for Hajj-al-Ifrad.
The Prophet (ﷺ) ordered them to finish their Ihram after Tawaf round the Ka`ba, and between Safa and Marwa and to cut short their hair, and then to stay there (in Mecca) as non-Muhrims till the day of Tarwiya (i.e. 8th of Dhul-Hijja) when they would assume Ihram for Hajj, and they were ordered to make the Ihram with which they had come as for `Umra only.
They asked, 'How can we make it `Umra (Tamattu`) as we have intended to perform Hajj?'
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'Do what I have ordered you. Had I not brought the Hadi with me, I would have done the same, but I cannot finish my Ihram till the Hadi reaches its destination (i.e. is slaughtered).' So, they did (what he ordered them to do).
Hadith - 55
Narrated Sa`id bin Al-Musaiyab: `Ali and `Uthman differed regarding Hajj-at-Tamattu` while they were at 'Usfan (a familiar place near Mecca).
`Ali said, "I see you want to forbid people to do a thing that the Prophet (ﷺ) did?" When `Ali saw that, he assumed Ihram for both Hajj and `Umra.
Hadith - 56
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah: We came with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (to Mecca) and we were saying: "Labbaik Allahumma Labbaik" for Hajj. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) ordered us to perform `Umra with that Ihram (instead of Hajj).
Hadith - 57
Narrated `Imran: We performed Hajj-at-Tamattu` in the lifetime of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and then the Qur'an was revealed (regarding Hajj-at-Tamattu`) and somebody said what he wished (regarding Hajj-at-Tamattu`) according his own opinion.