Hadith - 58
Ibn 'Abbas said that he has been asked regarding Hajj-at-Tamattu', on which he said: "The Muhajirin and the Ansar and the wives of the Prophet (ﷺ) and we did the same.
When we reached Makkah, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Give up your intention of doing the Hajj (at this moment) and perform 'Umra, except the one who had garlanded the Hady."
So, we performed Tawaf round the Ka'bah and [Sa'y] between As-safa and Al-Marwa, slept with our wives and wore ordinary (stitched) clothes.
The Prophet (ﷺ) added, "Whoever has garlanded his Hady is not allowed to finish the Ihram till the Hady has reached its destination (has been sacrificed)".
Then on the night of Tarwiya (8th Dhul Hijjah, in the afternoon) he ordered us to assume Ihram for Hajj, and when we had performed all the ceremonies of Hajj, we came and performed Tawaf round the Ka'bah and (Sa'y) between As-Safa and Al-Marwa, and then our Hajj was complete, and we had to sacrifice a Hady according to the statement of Allah: "...He must slaughter a Hady such as he can afford, but if he cannot afford it, he should observe Saum (fasts) three days during the Hajj and seven days after his return (to his home)" (Surah 2: Ayah 196).
And the sacrifice of the sheep is sufficient. So, the Prophet (ﷺ) and his Companions joined the two religious deeds, (i.e. Hajj and 'Umra) in one year, for Allah revealed (the permissibility) of such practice in His book and in the Sunna (legal ways) of His Prophet (ﷺ), and rendered it permissible for all the people except those living in Makkah.
Allah says: "This is for him whose family is not present at the Al-Masjid-Al-Haram, (i.e. non resident of Makkah)."
The months of Hajj which Allah mentioned in His book are: Shawwal, Dhul-Qa'da and Dhul-Hijjah. Whoever performed Hajj-at-Tamattu' in those months, then slaughtering or fasting is compulsory for him.
The words: Ar-Rafatha means sexual intercourse, Al-Fusuq means all kinds of sin, and Al-Jidal means to dispute.
Hadith - 59
Narrated Nafi`: On reaching the sanctuary of Mecca, Ibn `Umar used to stop reciting Talbiya, and then he would pass the night at Dhi-Tuwa, and then offer the Fajr prayer and take a bath. He used to say that the Prophet (ﷺ) used to do the same.
Hadith - 60
Narrated Nafi`: 'Ibn `Umar said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) passed the night at Dhi-Tuwa till it was dawn and then he entered Mecca." Ibn `Umar used to do the same.
Hadith - 61
Narrated Ibn `Umar: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to enter Mecca from the high Thaniya, and used to leave Mecca from the low Thaniya.
Hadith - 62
Narrated Ibn `Umar: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) entered Mecca from Kada' from the highest Thaniya which is at Al-Batha', and used to leave Mecca from the low Thaniya.
Hadith - 63
Narrated `Aisha: When the Prophet (ﷺ) came to Mecca, he entered from its higher side and left from its lower side.
Hadith - 64
Narrated `Aisha': In the year of the conquest of Mecca, the Prophet (ﷺ) entered Mecca from Kada' and left Mecca from Kuda, from the higher part of Mecca.
Hadith - 65
Narrated `Aisha: In the year of the conquest of Mecca, the Prophet (ﷺ) entered Mecca from Kada' at the higher place of Mecca. (Hisham, a sub-narrator said, "`Urwa used to enter (Mecca) from both Kada' and Kuda, and he often entered through Kada' which was nearer to his dwelling place.)
Hadith - 66
Narrated Hisham: `Urwa said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) entered Mecca in the year of the conquest of Mecca from the side of Kada' which is at the higher part of Mecca." `Urwa often entered from Kada' which was nearer of the two to his dwelling place.
Hadith - 67
Narrated Hisham from his father: In the year of the conquest of Mecca, the Prophet (ﷺ) entered Mecca from the side of Kada. `Urwa used to enter through both places, and he often entered through Kada' which was nearer of the two to his dwelling place.
Hadith - 68
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah: When the Ka`ba was built, the Prophet (ﷺ) and `Abbas went to bring stones (for its construction). Al-`Abbas said to the Prophet, "Take off your waist sheet and put it on your neck."
(When the Prophet (ﷺ) took it off) he fell on the ground with his eyes open towards the sky and said, "Give me my waist sheet." And he covered himself with it.
Hadith - 69
Narrated `Aisha (the wife of the Prophet): that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said to her, "Do you know that when your people (Quraish) rebuilt the Ka`ba, they decreased it from its original foundation laid by Abraham?"
I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Why don't you rebuild it on its original foundation laid by Abraham?" He replied, "Were it not for the fact that your people are close to the Pre-Islamic Period of ignorance (i.e. they have recently become Muslims) I would have done so."
The sub-narrator, `Abdullah (bin `Umar) stated: `Aisha 'must have heard this from Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), for in my opinion, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had not placed his hand over the two corners of the Ka`ba opposite Al-Hijr only because the Ka`ba was not rebuilt on its original foundations laid by Abraham.
Hadith - 70
Narrated `Aisha: I asked the Prophet (ﷺ) whether the round wall (near Ka`ba) was part of the Ka`ba. The Prophet (ﷺ) replied in the affirmative.
I further said, "What is wrong with them, why have they not included it in the building of the Ka`ba?"
He said, "Don't you see that your people (Quraish) ran short of money (so they could not include it inside the building of Ka`ba)?"
I asked, "What about its gate? Why is it so high?" He replied, "Your people did this so as to admit into it whomever they liked, and prevent whomever they liked.
Were your people not close to the Pre-Islamic Period of ignorance (i.e. they have recently embraced Islam) and were I not afraid that they would dislike it, surely I would have included the (area of the) wall inside the building of the Ka`ba, and I would have lowered its gate to the level of the ground."
Hadith - 71
Narrated `Aisha: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said to me, "Were your people not close to the Pre-Islamic period of ignorance, I would have demolished the Ka`ba and would have rebuilt it on its original foundations laid by Abraham (for Quraish had curtailed its building), and I would have built a back door (too)."
Hadith - 72
Narrated Yazid bin Ruman from `Urwa: `Aisha said that the Prophet (ﷺ) said to her, "O Aisha! Were your nation not close to the Pre-Islamic Period of Ignorance, I would have had the Ka`ba demolished and would have included in it the portion which had been left, and would have made it at a level with the ground and would have made two doors for it, one towards the east and the other towards the west, and then by doing this it would have been built on the foundations laid by Abraham."
That was what urged Ibn Az-Zubair to demolish the Ka`ba. Yazid said, "I saw Ibn Az-Zubair when he demolished and rebuilt the Ka`ba and included in it a portion of Al-Hijr (the unroofed portion of Ka`ba which is at present in the form of a compound towards the northwest of the Ka`ba).
I saw the original foundations of Abraham which were of stones resembling the humps of camels."
So Jarir asked Yazid, "Where was the place of those stones?" Yazid said, "I will just now show it to you."
So Jarir accompanied Yazid and entered Al-Hijr, and Yazid pointed to a place and said, "Here it is." Jarir said, "It appeared to me about six cubits from Al-Hijr or so."
Hadith - 73
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: On the Day of the Conquest of Mecca, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Allah has made this town a sanctuary. Its thorny bushes should not be cut, its game should not be chased, and its fallen things should not be picked up, except by one who would announce it publicly."
Hadith - 74
Narrated 'Usama bin Zaid: I asked, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Where will you stay in Mecca? Will you stay in your house in Mecca?"
He replied, "Has `Aqil left any property or house?" `Aqil along with Talib had inherited the property of Abu Talib.
Jafar and `Ali did not inherit anything, as they were Muslims and the other two were non-believers. `Umar bin Al-Khattab used to say, "A believer cannot inherit (anything from an) infidel."
Ibn Shihab, (a sub-narrator) said, "They (`Umar and others) derived the above verdict from Allah's Statement: 'Verily! those who believed and Emigrated and strove with their life and property in Allah's Cause, and those who helped (the emigrants) and gave them their places to live in, these are (all) allies to one another.'" (Surah 8: Ayah 72)
Hadith - 75
Narrated Abu Huraira: When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) intended to enter Mecca, he said, "Our destination tomorrow, if Allah wished, will be Khaif Bani Kinana, where (the pagans) had taken the oath of Kufr" (Against the Prophet (ﷺ), i.e. to be loyal to heathenism by boycotting Bani Hashim, the Prophet's folk.)
Hadith - 76
Narrated Abu Huraira: On the Day of Nahr at Mina, the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Tomorrow we shall stay at Khaif Bani Kinana, where the pagans had taken the oath of Kufr (heathenism)."
He meant (by that place) Al-Muhassab where the Quraish tribe and Bani Kinana concluded a contract against Bani Hashim and Bani `Abdul-Muttalib or Bani Al-Muttalib, that they would not intermarry with them or deal with them in business until they handed over the Prophet (ﷺ) to them.
Hadith - 77
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet said, "Dhus-Suwaiqatain (literally: One with two lean legs) from Ethiopia will demolish the Ka`ba."
Hadith - 78
Narrated `Aisha: The people used to fast on 'Ashura (the tenth day of the month of Muharram) before the fasting of Ramadan was made obligatory. And on that day the Ka`ba used to be covered with a cover.
When Allah made the fasting of the month of Ramadan compulsory, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Whoever wishes to fast (on the day of 'Ashura) may do so; and whoever wishes to leave it can do so."
Hadith - 79
Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The people will continue performing the Hajj and `Umra to the Ka`ba even after the appearance of Gog and Magog."
Narrated Shu`ba extra: The Hour (Day of Judgment) will not be established till the Hajj (to the Ka`ba) is abandoned.
Hadith - 80
Narrated Abu Wa'il: (One day) I sat along with Shaiba on the chair inside the Ka`ba. He (Shaiba) said, "No doubt, `Umar sat at this place and said, 'I intended not to leave any yellow (i.e. gold) or white (i.e. silver) (inside the Ka`ba) undistributed.'
I said (to `Umar), 'But your two companions (i.e. The Prophet (ﷺ) and Abu Bakr) did not do so.' `Umar said, "They are the two persons whom I always follow."
Hadith - 81
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "As if I were looking at him, a black person with thin legs plucking the stones of the Ka`ba one after another."
Hadith - 82
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Dhus-Suwaiqatain (the thin legged man) from Ethiopia will demolish the Ka`ba."
Hadith - 83
Narrated `Abis bin Rabi`a: `Umar came near the Black Stone and kissed it, and said, "No doubt, I know that you are a stone and can neither benefit anyone nor harm anyone. Had I not seen Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) kissing you, I would not have kissed you."
Hadith - 84
Narrated Salim that his father said: "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), Usama bin Zaid, Bilal, and `Uthman bin Abu Talha entered the Ka`ba and then closed its door. When they opened the door, I was the first person to enter (the Ka`ba).
I met Bilal and asked him, "Did Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) offer a prayer inside (the Ka`ba)?" Bilal replied in the affirmative and said, "(The Prophet (ﷺ) offered the prayer) in between the two right pillars."
Hadith - 85
Narrated Nafi`: Whenever Ibn `Umar entered the Ka`ba, he used to walk straight keeping the door at his back on entering, and used to proceed on till about three cubits from the wall in front of him, and then he would offer the prayer there aiming at the place where Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) prayed, as Bilal had told him.
There is no harm for any person to offer the prayer at any place inside the Ka`ba.
Hadith - 86
Narrated Isma'il bin Abu Khalid: `Abdullah bin Abu `Aufa said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) performed the `Umra. He performed Tawaf of the Ka`ba and offered two rak`at behind the Maqam (Abraham's place) and was accompanied by those who were screening him from the people."
Somebody asked `Abdullah, "Did Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) enter the Ka`ba?" `Abdullah replied in the negative.
Hadith - 87
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) came to Mecca, he refused to enter the Ka`ba with idols in it. He ordered (idols to be taken out). So they were taken out.
The people took out the pictures of Abraham and Ishmael holding Azlams in their hands. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "May Allah curse these people. By Allah, both Abraham and Ishmael never did the game of chance with Azlams."
Then he entered the Ka`ba and said Takbir at its corners, but did not offer the prayer in it.
Hadith - 88
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and his companions came to Mecca, the pagans circulated the news that a group of people were coming to them and they had been weakened by the Fever of Yathrib (Medina).
So the Prophet ordered his companions to do Ramal in the first three rounds of Tawaf of the Ka`ba and to walk between the two corners (The Black Stone and Yemenite corner). The Prophet (ﷺ) did not order them to do Ramal in all the rounds of Tawaf out of pity for them.
Hadith - 89
Narrated Salim that his father said: I saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) arriving at Mecca; he kissed the Black Stone Corner first while doing Tawaf, and did ramal in the first three rounds of the seven rounds (of Tawaf).
Hadith - 90
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar: The Prophet (ﷺ) did Ramal in (first) three rounds (of Tawaf), and walked in the remaining four, in Hajj and Umra.
Hadith - 91
Narrated Zaid bin Aslam from his father who said: "`Umar bin Al-Khattab addressed the Corner (Black Stone) saying, 'By Allah! I know that you are a stone and can neither benefit nor harm. Had I not seen the Prophet (ﷺ) touching (and kissing) you, I would never have touched (and kissed) you.'
Then he kissed it, and said, 'There is no reason for us to do Ramal (in Tawaf) except that we wanted to show off before the pagans, and now Allah has destroyed them.'
`Umar added, '(Nevertheless), the Prophet (ﷺ) did that and we do not want to leave it (i.e. Ramal).'
Hadith - 92
Narrated Nafi`: Ibn `Umar said, "I have never missed the touching of these two stones of Ka`ba (the Black Stone and the Yemenite Corner) both in the presence and the absence of crowds, since I saw the Prophet (ﷺ) touching them."
I asked Nafi`: "Did Ibn `Umar use to walk between the two Corners?" Nafi` replied, "He used to walk in order that it might be easy for him to touch it (the Corner Stone)."
Hadith - 93
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: In his Last Hajj, the Prophet (ﷺ) performed Tawaf of the Ka`ba riding a camel and pointed a bent-headed stick towards the Corner (Black Stone).
Hadith - 94
Abu Ash-Sha'tha said, "Who keeps away from some portion of the Ka'bah?" Mu'awiya used to touch the four corners of the Ka'bah.
Ibn 'Abbas said to him, "These two corners (the one facing the Hijr) are not to be touched." Mu'awiya said, "Nothing is untouchable in the Ka'bah." And Ibn Az-Zubair used to touch all the corners of the Ka'bah.
Hadith - 95
Narrated Salim bin `Abdullah that his father said: "I have not seen the Prophet (ﷺ) touching except the two Yemenite Corners (i.e. the ones facing Yemen)."
Hadith - 96
Narrated Zaid bin Aslam that his father said: I saw `Umar bin Al-Khattab kissing the Black Stone and he then said, (to it) "Had I not seen Allah's Apostle kissing you, (stone) I would not have kissed you."
Hadith - 97
Narrated Az-Zubair bin 'Arabi: A man asked Ibn `Umar about the touching of the Black Stone. Ibn `Umar said, "I saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) touching and kissing it."
The questioner said, "But if there were a throng (much rush) round the Ka`ba and the people overpowered me, (what would I do?)" He replied angrily, "Stay in Yemen (as that man was from Yemen). I saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) touching and kissing it."
Hadith - 98
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: The Prophet (ﷺ) performed Tawaf of the Ka`ba while riding a camel, and whenever he came in front of the Corner, he pointed towards it (with something).
Hadith - 99
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: The Prophet (ﷺ) performed Tawaf of the Ka`ba riding a camel, and every time he came in front of the Corner (having the Black Stone), he pointed towards it with something he had with him and said Takbir.
Hadith - 100
Narrated `Urwa: `Aisha said, "The first thing the Prophet (ﷺ) did on reaching Mecca, was the ablution and then he performed Tawaf of the Ka`ba, and that was not `Umra (alone), (but Hajj-al-Qiran)."
`Urwa added: Later Abu Bakr and `Umar did the same in their Hajj. And I performed the Hajj with my father Az-Zubair, and the first thing he did was Tawaf of the Ka`ba. Later I saw the Muhajirin (Emigrants) and the Ansar doing the same.
My mother (Asma') told me that she, her sister (`Aisha), Az-Zubair and such-and-such persons assumed Ihram for `Umra, and after they passed their hands over the Black Stone Corner (of the Ka`ba) they finished the Ihram (i.e. After doing Tawaf of the Ka`ba and Sa`i between Safa-Marwa).
Hadith - 101
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar: When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) performed Tawaf of the Ka`ba for Hajj or `Umra, he used to do Ramal during the first three rounds, and in the last four rounds he used to walk; then after the Tawaf he used to offer two rak`at, and then performed Tawaf between Safa and Marwa.
Hadith - 102
Narrated Ibn `Umar: When the Prophet (ﷺ) performed the Tawaf of the Ka`ba, he did Ramal during the first three rounds and in the last four rounds he used to walk, and while doing Tawaf between Safa and Marwa, he used to run in the midst of the rain water passage.
Hadith - 103
Ibn Juraij said, "`Ata informed us that when Ibn Hisham forbade women to perform Tawaf with men, he said to him, 'How do you forbid them while the wives of the Prophet (ﷺ) used to perform Tawaf with the men?'
I said, 'Was this before decreeing of the use of the veil or after it? `Ata took an oath and said, 'I saw it after the order of veil.'
I said, 'How did they mix with the men?' `Ata said, 'The women never mixed with the men, and `A'ishah used to perform Tawaf separately and never mixed with men.
Once it happened that `A'ishah was performing the Tawaf, and a woman said to her, 'O Mother of believers! Let us touch the Black stone.'
`A'ishah said to her, 'Go yourself,' and she herself refused to do so. The wives of the Prophet (ﷺ) used to come out in night, in disguise and used to perform Tawaf with men.
But whenever they intended to enter the Ka`bah, they would stay outside till the men had gone out.
I and `Ubaid bin `Umair used to visit `A'ishah while she was residing at Jauf Thabir."
I asked, "What was her veil?" `Ata said, "She was wearing an old Turkish veil, and that was the only thing (veil) which was screen between us and her. I saw a pink cover on her."
Hadith - 104
Narrated Um Salama (the wife of the Prophet): I informed Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) that I was ill. So he said, "Perform the Tawaf while riding behind the people."
I did so, and at that time the Prophet (ﷺ) was praying beside the Ka`ba and reciting Surah at-Tur.
Hadith - 105
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: While the Prophet (ﷺ) was performing Tawaf of the Ka`ba, he passed by a person who had tied his hands to another person with a rope or string or something like that.
The Prophet (ﷺ) cut it with his own hands and said, "Lead him by the hand."
Hadith - 106
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: The Prophet (ﷺ) saw a man performing Tawaf of the Ka`ba tied with a string or something else. So the Prophet cut that string.
Hadith - 107
Narrated Abu Huraira: In the year prior to the last Hajj of the Prophet (ﷺ) when Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) made Abu Bakr the leader of the pilgrims, the latter (Abu Bakr) sent me in the company of a group of people to make a public announcement: 'No pagan is allowed to perform Hajj after this year, and no naked person is allowed to perform Tawaf of the Ka`ba.'
Hadith - 108
Narrated `Amr: We asked Ibn `Umar: "May a man have sexual relations with his wife during the Umra before performing Tawaf between Safa and Marwa?"
He said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) arrived (in Mecca) and circumambulated the Ka`ba seven times, then offered two rak`at behind Maqam Ibrahim (the station of Abraham), then performed Tawaf between Safa and Marwa."
Ibn `Umar added, "Verily! In Allah's Apostle you have a good example."
And I asked Jabir bin `Abdullah (the same question), and he replied, "You should not go near your wives (have sexual relations) till you have finished Tawaf between Safa and Marwa."
Hadith - 109
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: The Prophet (ﷺ) arrived at Mecca and performed Tawaf of the Ka`ba and Sa`i between Safa and Marwa, but he did not go near the Ka`ba after his Tawaf till he returned from `Arafat.
Hadith - 110
Narrated Um Salama (the wife of the Prophet): I informed Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (about my illness).
(Through other sub-narrators,) Um Salama narrated that when Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was at Mecca and had just decided to leave (Mecca) while she had not yet done Tawaf of the Ka`ba, (and after listening to her) the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "When the morning prayer is established, perform the Tawaf on your camel while the people are in prayer."
So she did the same and did not offer the two rak`at of Tawaf until she came out of the Mosque.
Hadith - 111
Narrated Ibn `Umar: The Prophet (ﷺ) reached Mecca, circumambulated the Ka`ba seven times and then offered a two rak`at prayer behind Maqam Ibrahim. Then he went towards Safa. Allah has said, "Verily, in Allah's Apostle you have a good example."
Hadith - 112
Narrated `Urwa from Aisha: Some people performed Tawaf (of the Ka`ba) after the morning prayer and then sat to listen to a preacher till sunrise, and then they stood up for the prayer.
Then Aisha commented, "Those people kept on sitting till it was the time in which the prayer is disliked, and after that they stood up for the prayer."
Hadith - 113
Narrated `Abdullah: I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) forbidding the offering of prayers at the time of sunrise and sunset.
Hadith - 114
Narrated Abida bin Humaid: `Abdul `Aziz bin Rufa`i said, "I saw `Abdullah bin Az-Zubair performing Tawaf of the Ka`ba after the morning prayer then offering the two rak`at prayer."
`Abdul `Aziz added, "I saw `Abdullah bin Az-Zubair offering a two rak`at prayer after the `Asr prayer."
He informed me that Aisha told him that the Prophet (ﷺ) used to offer those two rak`at whenever he entered her house.
Hadith - 115
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) performed Tawaf (of the Ka`ba) riding a camel (at that time the Prophet (ﷺ) had a foot injury).
Whenever he came to the Corner (having the Black Stone) he would point out towards it with a thing in his hand and say, "Allahu-Akbar".
Hadith - 116
Narrated Um Salama: I informed Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) that I was sick. He said, "Perform Tawaf (of the Ka`ba) while riding behind the people."
So, I performed the Tawaf while Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was offering the prayer beside the Ka`ba and was reciting Surah at-Tur.