Hadith - 117
Narrated Ibn `Umar: Al-`Abbas bin `Abdul-Muttalib asked the permission of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) to let him stay in Mecca during the nights of Mina in order to provide the pilgrims with water to drink, so the Prophet (ﷺ) permitted him.
Hadith - 118
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) came to the drinking place and asked for water. Al-Abbas said, "O Fadl! Go to your mother and bring water from her for Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)."
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Give me water to drink." Al-Abbas said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! The people put their hands in it."
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) again said, 'Give me water to drink.' So, he drank from that water and then went to the Zamzam (well) and there the people were offering water to the others and working at it (drawing water from the well).
The Prophet (ﷺ) then said to them, "Carry on! You are doing a good deed."
Then he said, "Were I not afraid that other people would compete with you (in drawing water from Zamzam), I would certainly take the rope and put it over this (i.e. his shoulder) (to draw water)." On saying that, the Prophet (ﷺ) pointed to his shoulder.
Hadith - 119
Narrated Anas bin Malik that Abu Dhar said: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The roof of my house was made open while I was at Makkah (on the night of Mi'raj) and Jibril descended. 
He opened up my chest and washed it with the water of Zamzam. Then he brought the golden tray full of Wisdom and Belief and poured it in my chest and then closed it.
Then he took hold of my hand and ascended to the nearest heaven. Jibril told the gatekeeper of the nearest heaven to open the gate. The gatekeeper asked, "Who is it?" Jibril replied, "I am Jibril."
Hadith - 120
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: I gave Zamzam water to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and he drank it while standing.
`Asim (a sub-narrator) said that `Ikrima took the oath that on that day the Prophet (ﷺ) had not been standing but riding a camel.
Hadith - 121
Narrated `Aisha: We set out with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) in the year of his Last Hajj and we intended (the Ihram) for `Umra.
Then the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Whoever has a Hadi with him should assume Ihram for both Hajj and `Umra, and should not finish it till he performs both of them (Hajj and `Umra)." 
When we reached Mecca, I had my menses. When we had performed our Hajj, the Prophet (ﷺ) sent me with `Abdur-Rahman to Tan`im and I performed the `Umra. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "This is in lieu of your missed `Umra."
Those who had assumed Ihram for `Umra performed Tawaf (between Safa and Marwa) and then finished their Ihram. And then they performed another Tawaf (between Safa and Marwa) after returning from Mina.
And those who had assumed Ihram for Hajj and `Umra together (Hajj-Qiran) performed only one Tawaf (between Safa and Marwa).
Hadith - 122
Narrated Nafi`: `Abdullah bin `Abdullah bin `Umar and his riding animal entered the house of Ibn `Umar.
He (the son of Ibn `Umar) said, "I fear that this year a battle might take place between the people and you might be prevented from going to the Ka`ba. I suggest that you should stay here."
Ibn `Umar said, "Once Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) set out for the pilgrimage, and the pagans of Quraish intervened between him and the Ka`ba. So, if the people intervened between me and the Ka`ba, I would do the same as Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had done...". "Verily, in Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) you have a good example."
Then he added, "I make you a witness that I have intended to perform Hajj along with `Umra."
After arriving at Mecca, Ibn `Umar performed one Tawaf only (between Safa and Marwa).
Hadith - 123
Narrated Nafi`: Ibn `Umar intended to perform Hajj in the year when Al-Hajjaj attacked Ibn Az-Zubair. Somebody said to Ibn `Umar, "There is a danger of an impending war between them."
Ibn `Umar said, "Verily, in Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) you have a good example. (And if it happened as you say) then I would do the same as Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had done. I make you witness that I have decided to perform `Umra."
Then he set out and when he reached Al-Baida', he said, "The ceremonies of both Hajj and `Umra are similar. I make you witness that I have made Hajj compulsory for me along with `Umra."
He drove (to Mecca) a Hadi which he had bought from (a place called) Qudaid and did not do more than that. He did not slaughter the Hadi or finish his Ihram, or shave or cut short his hair till the day of slaughtering the sacrifices (10th Dhul-Hijja).
Then he slaughtered his Hadi and shaved his head, and considered the first Tawaf (of Safa and Marwa) as sufficient for Hajj and `Umra. Ibn `Umar said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) did the same."
Hadith - 124
Narrated Muhammad bin `Abdur-Rahman bin Nawfal Al-Qurashi: I asked `Urwa bin Az-Zubair (regarding the Hajj of the Prophet (ﷺ)).
`Urwa replied, "Aisha narrated, 'When the Prophet (ﷺ) reached Mecca, the first thing he started with was the ablution, then he performed Tawaf of the Ka`ba and his intention was not `Umra alone (but Hajj and `Umra together).'"
Later Abu Bakr performed the Hajj and the first thing he started with was Tawaf of the Ka`ba and it was not `Umra alone (but Hajj and `Umra together). And then `Umar did the same.
Then `Uthman performed the Hajj and the first thing he started with was Tawaf of the Ka`ba and it was not `Umra alone. And then Muawiya and `Abdullah bin `Umar did the same.
I performed Hajj with Ibn Az-Zubair, and the first thing he started with was Tawaf of the Ka`ba and it was not `Umra alone, (but Hajj and `Umra together). Then I saw the Muhajirin (Emigrants) and Ansar doing the same and it was not `Umra alone.
And the last person I saw doing the same was Ibn `Umar, and he did not do another `Umra after finishing the first.
Now here is Ibn `Umar present amongst the people! They neither ask him nor anyone of the previous ones.
And all these people, on entering Mecca, would not start with anything unless they had performed Tawaf of the Ka`ba, and would not finish their Ihram.
And no doubt, I saw my mother and my aunt, on entering Mecca doing nothing before performing Tawaf of the Ka`ba, and they would not finish their Ihram.
And my mother informed me that she, her sister, Az-Zubair and such-and-such persons had assumed Ihram for `Umra and after passing their hands over the Corner (the Black Stone) (i.e. finishing their Umra) they finished their Ihram."
Hadith - 125
Narrated `Urwa: I asked `Aisha: "How do you interpret the statement of Allah, 'Verily! (the mountains) As-Safa and Al-Marwa are among the symbols of Allah, and whoever performs the Hajj to the Ka`ba or performs `Umra, it is not harmful for him to perform Tawaf between them (Safa and Marwa)' (Surah 2: Ayah 158).
By Allah! (it is evident from this revelation) there is no harm if one does not perform Tawaf between Safa and Marwa."
`Aisha said, "O my nephew! Your interpretation is not true. Had this interpretation of yours been correct, the statement of Allah should have been, 'It is not harmful for him if he does not perform Tawaf between them.'
But in fact, this divine inspiration was revealed concerning the Ansar who used to assume Ihram for worshipping an idol called "Manat" which they used to worship at a place called Al-Mushallal before they embraced Islam, and whoever assumed Ihram (for the idol), would consider it not right to perform Tawaf between Safa and Marwa.
When they embraced Islam, they asked Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) regarding it, saying, "O Allah's Apostle! We used to refrain from Tawaf between Safa and Marwa."
So Allah revealed: 'Verily; (the mountains) As-Safa and Al-Marwa are among the symbols of Allah.'"
Aisha added, "Surely, Allah's Apostle set the tradition of Tawaf between Safa and Marwa, so nobody is allowed to omit the Tawaf between them."
Later on I (`Urwa) told Abu Bakr bin `Abdur-Rahman (of `Aisha's narration) and he said, 'I have not heard of such information, but I heard learned men saying that all the people, except those whom `Aisha mentioned and who used to assume Ihram for the sake of Manat, used to perform Tawaf between Safa and Marwa.
When Allah referred to the Tawaf of the Ka`ba and did not mention Safa and Marwa in the Qur'an, the people asked, 'O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! We used to perform Tawaf between Safa and Marwa and Allah has revealed (the verses concerning) Tawaf of the Ka`ba and has not mentioned Safa and Marwa. Is there any harm if we perform Tawaf between Safa and Marwa?' 
So Allah revealed: "Verily As-Safa and Al-Marwa are among the symbols of Allah."
Abu Bakr said, "It seems that this verse was revealed concerning the two groups, those who used to refrain from Tawaf between Safa and Marwa in the Pre-Islamic Period of ignorance and those who used to perform the Tawaf then, and after embracing Islam they refrained from the Tawaf between them as Allah had enjoined Tawaf of the Ka`ba and did not mention Tawaf (of Safa and Marwa) till later after mentioning the Tawaf of the Ka`ba."
Hadith - 126
Narrated Nafi`: Ibn `Umar said, "When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) performed the first Tawaf, he did Ramal in the first three rounds and then walked in the remaining four rounds (of Tawaf of the Ka`ba), whereas in performing Tawaf between Safa and Marwa, he used to run in the midst of the rainwater passage."
I asked Nafi`, "Did `Abdullah (bin `Umar) use to walk steadily on reaching the Yemenite Corner?"
He replied, "No, unless people were crowded at the Corner; otherwise he would not leave it without touching it."
Hadith - 127
Narrated `Amr bin Dinar: We asked Ibn `Umar whether a man who, while performing `Umra, had performed Tawaf of the Ka`ba; and had not yet performed Tawaf between Safa and Marwa, could have sexual relation with his wife.
Ibn `Umar replied, "The Prophet (ﷺ) reached Mecca and performed the seven rounds (of Tawaf) of the Ka`ba, and then offered a two rak`at prayer behind Maqam Ibrahim, and then performed the seven rounds (of Tawaf) between Safa and Marwa."
He added, "Verily! In Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) you have a good example."
We asked Jabir bin `Abdullah (the same question) and he said, "He (that man) should not come near (his wife) till he has completed Tawaf between Safa and Marwa."
Hadith - 128
Narrated `Amr bin Dinar: I heard Ibn `Umar saying, "The Prophet (ﷺ) arrived at Mecca and performed Tawaf of the Ka`ba, and then offered a two rak`at prayer, and then performed Tawaf between Safa and Marwa."
Ibn `Umar then recited (the verse): "Verily! In Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) you have a good example."
Hadith - 129
Narrated `Asim: I asked Anas bin Malik: "Did you use to dislike to perform Tawaf between Safa and Marwa?"
He said, "Yes, as it was of the ceremonies of the days of the Pre-Islamic period of ignorance, till Allah revealed: 'Verily! (The two mountains) As-Safa and Al-Marwa are among the symbols of Allah. It is therefore no sin for him who performs the pilgrimage to the Ka`ba, or performs `Umra, to perform Tawaf between them.'" (Surah 2: Ayah 158)
Hadith - 130
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) performed Tawaf of the Ka`ba and the Sa`i of Safa and Marwa so as to show his strength to the pagans.
Hadith - 131
Narrated `Aisha: I was menstruating when I reached Mecca. So, I neither performed Tawaf of the Ka`ba, nor the Tawaf between Safa and Marwa.
Then I informed Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) about it. He replied, "Perform all the ceremonies of Hajj like the other pilgrims, but do not perform Tawaf of the Ka`ba till you get clean (from your menses)."
Hadith - 132
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah: The Prophet (ﷺ) and his companions assumed Ihram for Hajj, and none except the Prophet (ﷺ) and Talha had the Hadi (sacrifice) with them.
`Ali arrived from Yemen and had a Hadi with him. `Ali said, "I have assumed Ihram for what the Prophet (ﷺ) has done."
The Prophet (ﷺ) ordered his companions to perform the `Umra with the Ihram which they had assumed, and after finishing Tawaf (of Ka`ba, Safa and Marwa) to cut short their hair, and to finish their Ihram except those who had Hadi with them.
They (the people) said, "How can we proceed to Mina (for Hajj) after having sexual relations with our wives?"
When that news reached the Prophet (ﷺ) he said, "If I had formerly known what I came to know lately, I would not have brought the Hadi with me. Had there been no Hadi with me, I would have finished the state of Ihram."
`Aisha got her menses, so she performed all the ceremonies of Hajj except Tawaf of the Ka`ba, and when she got clean (from her menses), she performed Tawaf of the Ka`ba.
She said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! (All of you) are returning with the Hajj and `Umra, but I am returning after performing Hajj only."
So the Prophet (ﷺ) ordered `Abdur-Rahman bin Abu Bakr to accompany her to Tan`im, and thus she performed the `Umra after the Hajj.
Hadith - 133
Narrated Hafsa: (On `Id) We used to forbid our virgins to go out (for `Id prayer). A lady came and stayed at the fortress of Bani Khalaf.
She mentioned that her sister was married to one of the companions of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) who participated in twelve Ghazawats along with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and her sister was with him in six of them.
She said, "We used to dress the wounded and look after the patients."
She (her sister) asked Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), "Is there any harm for a woman to stay at home if she doesn't have a veil?"
He said, "She should cover herself with the veil of her companion, and she should take part in the good deeds and in the religious gatherings of the believers."
When Um 'Atiyya came, I asked her, "Did you hear anything about that?" Um 'Atiyya said, "Bi Abi", and she never mentioned the name of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) without saying "Bi Abi" (i.e. 'Let my father be sacrificed for you').
We asked her, "Have you heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying so and so (about women)?"
She replied in the affirmative and said, "Let my father be sacrificed for him. He told us that unmarried mature virgins who stay often screened or unmarried young virgins and mature girls who stay often screened should come out and take part in the good deeds and in the religious gatherings of the believers.
But the menstruating women should keep away from the Musalla (praying place)." I asked her, "The menstruating women?"
She replied, "Don't they present themselves at `Arafat and at such-and-such places?"
Hadith - 134
Narrated `Abdul `Aziz bin Rufai: I asked Anas bin Malik, "Tell me what you remember from Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (regarding these questions): Where did he offer the Zuhr and `Asr prayers on the day of Tarwiya (8th day of Dhul-Hijja)?" He replied, "(He offered these prayers) at Mina."
I asked, "Where did he offer the `Asr prayer on the day of Nafr (i.e. departure from Mina on the 12th or 13th of Dhul-Hijja)?" He replied, "At Al-Abtah," and then added, "You should do as your chiefs do."
Hadith - 135
Narrated `Abdul `Aziz: I went out to Mina on the day of Tarwiya and met Anas going on a donkey. I asked him, "Where did the Prophet (ﷺ) offer the Zuhr prayer on this day?"
Anas replied, "See where your chiefs pray and pray similarly."
Hadith - 136
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) offered a two rak`at prayer at Mina. Abu Bakr, `Umar and `Uthman, (during the early years of his caliphate) followed the same practice.
Hadith - 137
Narrated Haritha bin Wahab Al-Khuza`i: The Prophet (ﷺ) led us in a two rak`at prayer at Mina, although our number was more than ever and we were in better security than ever.
Hadith - 138
Narrated `Abdullah bin Mas`ud: I offered (only a) two rak`at prayer with the Prophet (at Mina), and similarly with Abu Bakr and with `Umar, and then you differed in opinions.
Wish that I would be lucky enough to have two of the four rak`at accepted (by Allah).
Hadith - 139
Narrated Um Al-Fadl: The people doubted whether the Prophet (ﷺ) was observing the fast on the Day of `Arafat, so I sent something for him to drink and he drank it.
Hadith - 140
Narrated Muhammad bin Abu Bakr Al-Thaqafi: I asked Anas bin Malik while we were proceeding from Mina to `Arafat, "What did you use to do on this day when you were with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)?"
Anas said, "Some of us used to recite Talbiya and nobody objected to that, and others used to recite Takbir and nobody objected to that."
Hadith - 141
Narrated Salim: `Abdul Malik wrote to Al-Hajjaj that he should not differ from Ibn `Umar during Hajj. On the Day of `Arafat, when the sun declined at midday, Ibn `Umar came along with me and shouted near Al-Hajjaj's cotton (cloth) tent.
Al-Hajjaj came out, wrapping himself with a waist-sheet dyed with safflower, and said, "O Abu `Abdur-Rahman! What is the matter?"
He said, "If you want to follow the Sunna (the tradition of the Prophet (ﷺ)) then proceed (to `Arafat)."
Al-Hajjaj asked, "At this very hour?" Ibn `Umar said, "Yes." He replied, "Please wait for me till I pour some water over my head (i.e. take a bath) and come out."
Then Ibn `Umar dismounted and waited till Al-Hajjaj came out. So, he (Al-Hajjaj) walked in between me and my father (Ibn `Umar).
I said to him, "If you want to follow the Sunna then deliver a brief sermon and hurry up for the stay at `Arafat."
He started looking at `Abdullah (Ibn `Umar) (inquiringly), and when `Abdullah noticed that, he said that he had told the truth.
Hadith - 142
Narrated Um Al-Fadl bint Al Harith: On the day of `Arafat, some people who were with me, differed about the fasting of the Prophet (ﷺ). Some said that he was fasting while others said that he was not fasting.
So I sent a bowl full of milk to him while he was riding his camel, and he drank that milk.
Hadith - 143
Ibn Shihab said: Salim said, "In the year when Al-Hajjaj bin Yusuf attacked Ibn Az-Zubair, the former asked 'Abdullah (Ibn 'Umar) what to do during the stay on the Day of 'Arafa (9th of Dhul-Hijjah).
I said to him, "If you want to follow the Sunna (the legal way of the Prophet (ﷺ)) you should offer the Salat just after midday on the Day of the 'Arafa. 'Abdullah bin 'Umar said, 'He (Salim) has spoken the truth.'"
They (the Companions of the Prophet (ﷺ)) used to offer the Zuhr and Asr prayer together according to the Sunna.
I asked Salim, "Did Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) do that?" Salim said, "And in doing that, do you (people) follow anything else except his (ﷺ) Sunna?"
Hadith - 144
Narrated Salim bin `Abdullah bin `Umar: `Abdul-Malik bin Marwan wrote to Al-Hajjaj that he should follow `Abdullah bin `Umar in all the ceremonies of Hajj.
So when it was the Day of `Arafat (9th of Dhul-Hijja), and after the sun had deviated or had declined from the middle of the sky, I and Ibn `Umar came and he shouted near the cotton (cloth) tent of Al-Hajjaj, "Where is he?" Al-Hajjaj came out.
Ibn `Umar said, "Let us proceed (to `Arafat)." Al-Hajjaj asked, "Just now?" Ibn `Umar replied, "Yes." Al-Hajjaj said, "Wait for me till I pour water on me (i.e. take a bath)." 
So, Ibn `Umar dismounted (and waited) till Al-Hajjaj came out. He was walking between me and my father.
I informed Al-Hajjaj, "If you want to follow the Sunna today, then you should shorten the sermon and then hurry up for the stay (at `Arafat)." Ibn `Umar said, "He (Salim) has spoken the truth."
Hadith - 145
Narrated Muhammad bin Jubair bin Mut`im: My father said, "(Before Islam) I was looking for my camel..." The same narration is told by a different sub-narrator.
Jubair bin Mut`im said, "My camel was lost, and I went out in search of it on the day of `Arafat, and I saw the Prophet (ﷺ) standing in `Arafat.
I said to myself: By Allah he is from the Hums (literally: strictly religious, Quraish were called so, as they used to say, 'We are the people of Allah we shall not go out of the sanctuary'). What has brought him here?"
Hadith - 146
Narrated `Urwa: During the Pre-Islamic period of Ignorance, the people used to perform Tawaf of the Ka`ba naked, except the Hums; and the Hums were Quraish and their offspring.
The Hums used to give clothes to the men who would perform the Tawaf wearing them; and women (of the Hums) used to give clothes to the women who would perform the Tawaf wearing them.
Those to whom the Hums did not give clothes would perform Tawaf round the Ka`ba naked. 
Most of the people used to go away (disperse) directly from `Arafat but they (Hums) used to depart after staying at Al-Muzdalifa.
`Urwa added, "My father narrated that `Aisha had said, 'The following verses were revealed about the Hums: Then depart from the place whence all the people depart (Surah 2: Ayah 199)."
`Urwa added, "They (the Hums) used to stay at Al-Muzdalifa and used to depart from there (to Mina) and so they were sent to `Arafat (by Allah's order)."
Hadith - 147
Narrated `Urwa: Usama was asked in my presence, "How was the speed of (the camel of) Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) while departing from `Arafat during the Hajjatul Wada`?"
Usama replied, "The Prophet (ﷺ) proceeded on with a modest pace, and when there was enough space he would (make his camel) go very fast."
Hadith - 148
Narrated Usama bin Zaid: As soon as the Prophet (ﷺ) departed from `Arafat, he went towards the mountain pass, and there he answered the call of nature. He was asked, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Will you offer the prayer here?" He replied, "(The place of) the prayer is ahead of you (i.e. at Al-Muzdalifa)."
Hadith - 149
Narrated Nafi`: `Abdullah bin `Umar used to offer the Maghrib and `Isha' prayers together at Jam' (Al-Muzdalifa).
But he used to pass by that mountain pass where Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) went, and he would enter it and answer the call of nature and perform ablution, and would not offer any prayer till he had prayed at Jam'.
Hadith - 150
Narrated Usama bin Zaid: I rode behind Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) from `Arafat, and when Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) reached the mountain pass on the left side which is before Al-Muzdalifa, he made his camel kneel and then urinated, and then I poured water for his ablution.
He performed light ablution and then I said to him: "(Is it the time for) the prayer, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)?" He replied, "The (place of) prayer is ahead of you (i.e. at Al-Muzdalifa)."
So Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) rode till he reached Al-Muzdalifa, and then he offered the prayer (there).
Then in the morning (10th Dhul-Hijja) Al-Fadl (bin `Abbas) rode behind Allah's Messenger (ﷺ).
Kuraib, (a sub-narrator) said that `Abdullah bin `Abbas narrated from Al-Fadl, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) kept on reciting Talbiya (during the journey) till he reached the Jamra (Jamrat-Al-`Aqaba)."
Hadith - 151
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: I proceeded along with the Prophet (ﷺ) on the day of `Arafat (9th Dhul-Hijja). The Prophet (ﷺ) heard a great hue and cry and the beating of camels behind him.
So he beckoned to the people with his lash, "O people! Be quiet. Hastening is not a sign of righteousness."
Hadith - 152
Narrated Usama bin Zaid: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) proceeded from `Arafat and dismounted at the mountainous pass and then urinated and performed a light ablution.
I said to him, "(Shall we offer) the prayer?" He replied, "The prayer is ahead of you (i.e. at Al-Muzdalifa)." When he came to Al-Muzdalifa, he performed a perfect ablution.
Then Iqama for the prayer was pronounced and he offered the Maghrib prayer, and then every person made his camel kneel at his place; and then Iqama for the prayer was pronounced and he offered the (`Isha') prayer and he did not offer any prayer in between them (i.e. Maghrib and `Isha' prayers).
Hadith - 153
Narrated Ibn `Umar: The Prophet (ﷺ) offered the Maghrib and `Isha' prayers together at Jam' (i.e. Al-Muzdalifa) with a separate Iqama for each of them, and did not offer any optional prayer in between them or after each of them.
Hadith - 154
Narrated Abu Aiyub Al-Ansari: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) offered the Maghrib and `Isha' prayers together at Al-Muzdalifa.
Hadith - 155
Narrated `Abdur-Rahman bin Yazid: `Abdullah performed the Hajj, and we reached Al-Muzdalifa at or about the time of the `Isha' prayer.
He ordered a man to pronounce the Adhan and Iqama, and then he offered the Maghrib prayer and offered two rak`at after it.
Then he asked for his supper and took it, and then, I think, he ordered a man to pronounce the Adhan and Iqama (for the `Isha' prayer). (`Amr, a sub-narrator said: The intervening statement 'I think', was said by the sub-narrator Zuhair) (i.e. not by `Abdur-Rahman). Then `Abdullah offered two rak`at of `Isha' prayer.
When the day dawned, `Abdullah said, "The Prophet never offered any prayer at this hour except this prayer at this time and at this place and on this day."
`Abdullah added, "These two prayers are shifted from their actual times - the Maghrib prayer (is offered) when the people reached Al-Muzdalifa, and the Fajr (morning) prayer at the early dawn."
`Abdullah added, "I saw the Prophet (ﷺ) doing that."
Hadith - 156
Narrated Salim: `Abdullah bin `Umar used to send the weak among his family early to Mina. 
So they used to depart from Al-Mash'ar Al-Haram (that is Al-Muzdalifa) at night (when the moon had set) and invoke Allah as much as they could, and then they would return (to Mina) before the Imam had started from Al-Muzdalifa to Mina.
So some of them would reach Mina at the time of the Fajr prayer and some of them would come later. When they reached Mina they would throw pebbles on the Jamra (Jamrat-Al-`Aqaba).
Ibn `Umar used to say, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) gave the permission to them (weak people) to do so."
Hadith - 157
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had sent me from Jam' (i.e. Al-Muzdalifa) at night.
Hadith - 158
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: I was among those whom the Prophet (ﷺ) sent on the night of Al-Muzdalifa early, being among the weak members of his family.
Hadith - 159
Narrated `Abdullah (the slave of Asma'): During the night of Jam', Asma' got down at Al-Muzdalifa and stood up for (offering) the prayer and offered the prayer for some time and then asked, "O my son! Has the moon set?"
I replied in the negative and she again prayed for another period and then asked, "Has the moon set?" I replied, "Yes."
So she said that we should set out (for Mina), and we departed and went on till she threw pebbles at the Jamra (Jamrat-Al-`Aqaba) and then she returned to her dwelling place and offered the morning prayer.
I asked her, "O you! I think we have come (to Mina) early in the night." She replied, "O my son! Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) gave permission to the women to do so."
Hadith - 160
Narrated `Aisha: Sauda asked the permission of the Prophet (ﷺ) to leave earlier at the night of Jam', and she was a fat and very slow woman. The Prophet (ﷺ) gave her permission.
Hadith - 161
Narrated `Aisha: We got down at Al-Muzdalifa and Sauda asked the permission of the Prophet (ﷺ) to leave (early) before the rush of the people.
She was a slow woman and he gave her permission, so she departed (from Al-Muzdalifa) before the rush of the people.
We kept on staying at Al-Muzdalifa till dawn, and set out with the Prophet (ﷺ) but (I suffered so much that) I wished I had taken the permission of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as Sauda had done, and that would have been dearer to me than any other happiness.
Hadith - 162
Narrated `Abdullah: I never saw the Prophet (ﷺ) offering any prayer not at its stated time except two; he prayed the Maghrib and the `Isha' together and he offered the morning prayer before its usual time.
Hadith - 163
Narrated `Abdur-Rahman bin Yazid: I went out with `Abdullah to Mecca, and when we proceeded to Jam', he offered the two prayers (the Maghrib and the `Isha') together, making the Adhan and Iqama separately for each prayer.
He took his supper in between the two prayers. He offered the Fajr prayer as soon as the day dawned.
Some people said, "The day had dawned (at the time of the prayer)," and others said, "The day had not dawned."
`Abdullah then said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, 'These two prayers have been shifted from their stated times at this place only (at Al-Muzdalifa); first: The Maghrib and the `Isha'.
So the people should not arrive at Al-Muzdalifa till the time of the `Isha' prayer has become due. The second prayer is the morning prayer which is offered at this hour.'"
Then `Abdullah stayed there till it became a bit brighter. He then said, "If the chief of the believers hastened onwards to Mina just now, then he had indeed followed the Sunna."
I do not know which proceeded the other, his (`Abdullah's) statement or the departure of `Uthman.
`Abdullah was reciting Talbiya till he threw pebbles at the Jamrat-Al-`Aqaba on the Day of Nahr (slaughtering) (that is the 10th of Dhul-Hijja).
Hadith - 164
Narrated `Amr bin Maimun: I saw `Umar, offering the Fajr (morning) prayer at Jam'; then he got up and said, "The pagans did not use to depart (from Jam') till the sun had risen, and they used to say, 'Let the sun shine on Thabir (a mountain).'
But the Prophet (ﷺ) contradicted them and departed from Jam' before sunrise."
Hadith - 165
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: The Prophet (ﷺ) made Al-Fadl ride behind him, and Al-Fadl informed that he (the Prophet (ﷺ)) kept on reciting Talbiya till he did the Rami of the Jamra (Jamrat-Al-`Aqaba).
Hadith - 166
Narrated 'Ubaidullah bin `Abdullah: Ibn `Abbas said, "Usama bin Zaid rode behind the Prophet (ﷺ) from `Arafat to Al-Muzdalifa; and then from Al-Muzdalifa to Mina, Al-Fadl rode behind him."
He added, "Both of them (Usama and Al-Fadl) said, 'The Prophet (ﷺ) was constantly reciting Talbiya till he did Rami of the Jamrat-Al-`Aqaba.'"
Hadith - 167
Narrated Abu Jamra: I asked Ibn `Abbas about Hajj-at-Tamattu`. He ordered me to perform it.
I asked him about the Hadi (sacrifice). He said, "You have to slaughter a camel, a cow or a sheep, or you may share the Hadi with the others."
It seemed that some people disliked it (Hajj-at-Tamattu`). I slept and dreamt as if a person was announcing: "Hajj Mabrur and accepted Mut'ah (Hajj-at-Tamattu`)."
I went to Ibn `Abbas and narrated it to him. He said, "Allah is Greater. (That was) the tradition of Abu Al-Qasim (i.e. Prophet)."
Narrated Shu`ba that the call in the dream was, "An accepted `Umra and Hajj-Mabrur."
Hadith - 168
Narrated Abu Huraira': Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saw a man driving his Badana (sacrificial camel). He said, "Ride on it."
The man said, "It is a Badana." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Ride on it." He (the man) said, "It is a Badana." The Prophet said, "Ride on it." And on the second or the third time he (the Prophet (ﷺ)) added, "Woe to you."
Hadith - 169
Narrated Anas: The Prophet (ﷺ) saw a man driving a Badana. He said, "Ride on it." The man replied, "It is a Badana."
The Prophet (ﷺ) said (again), "Ride on it." He (the man) said, "It is a Badana." The Prophet (ﷺ) said thrice, "Ride on it."
Hadith - 170
Narrated Ibn `Umar: During the last Hajj (Hajj-al-Wada`) of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) he performed `Umra and Hajj. He drove a Hadi along with him from Dhul-Hulaifa.
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) started by assuming Ihram for `Umra and Hajj. And the people, too, performed the `Umra and Hajj along with the Prophet. Some of them brought the Hadi and drove it along with them, while the others did not.
So, when the Prophet (ﷺ) arrived at Mecca, he said to the people, "Whoever among you has driven the Hadi, should not finish his Ihram till he completes his Hajj.
And whoever among you has not (driven) the Hadi with him, should perform Tawaf of the Ka`ba and the Tawaf between Safa and Marwa, then cut short his hair and finish his Ihram, and should later assume Ihram for Hajj; but he must offer a Hadi (sacrifice); and if anyone cannot afford a Hadi, he should fast for three days during the Hajj and seven days when he returns home."
The Prophet (ﷺ) performed Tawaf of the Ka`ba on his arrival (at Mecca); he touched the (Black Stone) corner first of all and then did Ramal (fast walking with moving of the shoulders) during the first three rounds round the Ka`ba, and during the last four rounds he walked.
After finishing Tawaf of the Ka`ba, he offered a two rak`at prayer at Maqam Ibrahim, and after finishing the prayer, he went to Safa and Marwa and performed seven rounds of Tawaf between them, and did not do any deed forbidden because of Ihram, till he finished all the ceremonies of his Hajj and sacrificed his Hadi on the day of Nahr (10th day of Dhul-Hijja).
He then hastened onwards (to Mecca) and performed Tawaf of the Ka`ba, and then everything that was forbidden because of Ihram became permissible.
Those who took and drove the Hadi with them did the same as Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) did.
Hadith - 171
Narrated 'Urwa: "'Aishah informed me about the Hajj and 'Umra (together) of the Prophet (ﷺ) and so did the people who were with him (during the Hajj and 'Umra)". And the narration similar to the narration of Ibn 'Umar (previous hadith).
Hadith - 172
Narrated Nafi`: `Abdullah (bin `Abdullah) bin `Umar said to his father, "Stay here, for I am afraid that it (affliction between Ibn Zubair and Al-Hajjaj) might prevent you from reaching the Ka`ba."
Ibn `Umar said, "(In this case) I would do the same as Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) did, and Allah has said, 'Verily, in Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), you have a good example (to follow).' 
So, I make you, people, witness that I have made `Umra compulsory for me." So he assumed Ihram for `Umra.
Then he went out and when he reached Al-Baida', he assumed Ihram for Hajj and `Umra (together) and said, "The conditions (requisites) of Hajj and `Umra are the same." He then bought a Hadi from Qudaid.
Then he arrived (at Mecca) and performed Tawaf (between Safa and Marwa) once for both Hajj and `Umra, and did not finish the Ihram till he had finished both Hajj and `Umra.
Hadith - 173
Narrated Al-Miswar bin Makhrama and Marwan: The Prophet (ﷺ) set out from Medina with over one thousand of his companions (at the time of the Treaty of Hudaibiya), and when they reached Dhul-Hulaifa, the Prophet (ﷺ) garlanded his Hadi and marked it and assumed Ihram for `Umra.
Hadith - 174
Narrated `Aisha: I twisted with my own hands the garlands for the Budn of the Prophet (ﷺ) who garlanded and marked them, and then made them proceed to Mecca; yet no permissible thing was regarded as illegal for him then.
Hadith - 175
Narrated Hafsa: I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! What is wrong with the people, they have finished their Ihram but you have not?"
He said, "I matted my hair and I have garlanded my Hadi, so I will not finish my Ihram till I have finished my Hajj."
Hadith - 176
Narrated `Aisha: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to send the Hadi from Medina, and I used to twist the garlands for his Hadi, and he did not keep away from any of these things which a Muhrim keeps away from.
Hadith - 177
Narrated `Aisha: I twisted the garlands for the Hadis of the Prophet (ﷺ) and then he marked and garlanded them (or I garlanded them) and then made them proceed to the Ka`ba, but he remained in Medina and no permissible thing was regarded as illegal for him then.
Hadith - 178
Narrated `Abdullah bin Abu Bakr bin `Amr bin Hazm: That `Amra bint `Abdur-Rahman had told him, "Zaid bin Abu Sufyan wrote to `Aisha that `Abdullah bin `Abbas had stated, 'Whoever sends his Hadi (to the Ka`ba), all the things which are illegal for a (pilgrim) become illegal for that person till he slaughters it (i.e. till the 10th of Dhul-Hijja).'"
`Amra added, "`Aisha said, 'It is not like what Ibn `Abbas has said. I twisted the garlands of the Hadis of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) with my own hands.
Then Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) put them round their necks with his own hands, sending them with my father. Yet nothing permitted by Allah was considered illegal for Allah's Apostle till he slaughtered the Hadis.'"
Hadith - 179
Narrated `Aisha: Once the Prophet (ﷺ) sent sheep as Hadi.
Hadith - 180
Narrated `Aisha: I used to make the garlands for (the Hadis of) the Prophet (ﷺ) and he would garland the sheep (with them) and would stay with his family as a non-Muhrim.
Hadith - 181
Narrated Aisha: I used to twist the garlands for the sheep of the Prophet (ﷺ) and he would send them (to the Ka`ba), and stay as a non-Muhrim.
Hadith - 182
Narrated `Aisha: I twisted (the garlands) for the Hadis of the Prophet (ﷺ) before he assumed Ihram.
Hadith - 183
Narrated `Aisha: I twisted the garlands of the Hadis from the wool which was with me.
Hadith - 184
Narrated `Ikrima: Abu Huraira said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) saw a man driving a Badana (sacrificial camel). The Prophet (ﷺ) said (to him), 'Ride on it.' He replied, 'It is a Badana.'
The Prophet (ﷺ) again said, 'Ride on it!' Abu Huraira added, 'Then I saw that man riding it, showing obedience to the Prophet (ﷺ), and a shoe was (hanging) from its neck.'" Narrated Abu Huraira: From the Prophet: (as above).
Hadith - 185
Narrated `Ali: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) ordered me to give in charity the skin and the coverings of the Budn which I had slaughtered.
Hadith - 186
Narrated Nafi`: Ibn `Umar intended to perform Hajj in the year of the Hajj of Al-Haruriya during the rule of Ibn Az-Zubair.
Some people said to him, "It is very likely that there will be a fight among the people, and we are afraid that they might prevent you (from performing Hajj)."
He replied, "Verily, in Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) there is a good example for you (to follow). In this case I would do the same as he had done. I make you witness that I have intended to perform `Umra."
When he reached Al-Baida', he said, "The conditions for both Hajj and `Umra are the same. I make you witness that I have intended to perform Hajj along with `Umra."
After that he took a garlanded Hadi (to Mecca) which he bought (on the way). When he reached (Mecca), he performed Tawaf of the Ka`ba and of Safa (and Marwa) and did not do more than that.
He did not make legal for himself the things which were illegal for a Muhrim till it was the Day of Nahr (sacrifice), when he had his head shaved and slaughtered (the sacrifice) and considered sufficient his first Tawaf (between Safa and Marwa), as a (Sa`i) for his Hajj and `Umra both.
He then said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) used to do like that."