Hadith - 187
Narrated `Amra bint `Abdur-Rahman: I heard `Aisha saying, "Five days before the end of Dhul-Qa'da, we set out from Medina in the company of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) with the intention of performing Hajj only.
When we approached Mecca, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) ordered those who had no Hadi with them to finish their Ihram after performing Tawaf of the Ka`ba and (Sa`i) between Safa and Marwa."
`Aisha added, "On the day of Nahr (slaughtering of sacrifice) beef was brought to us. I asked, 'What is this?' The reply was, "Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) has slaughtered (sacrifices) on behalf of his wives."
Hadith - 188
Narrated Nafi`: `Abdullah (bin `Umar) used to slaughter (his sacrifice) at the Manhar. ('Ubaidullah, a sub-narrator said, "The Manhar of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ).")
Hadith - 189
Narrated Nafi`: Ibn `Umar used to send his Hadi from Jam' (to Mina) in the last third of the night with the pilgrims, amongst whom there were free men and slaves, till it was taken into the Manhar (slaughtering place) of the Prophet (ﷺ).
Hadith - 190
Narrated Sahl bin Bakkar: The narration of Anas abridged, saying, "The Prophet (ﷺ) slaughtered seven Budn (camels) while standing, with his own hands.
On the day of `Id-ul-Adha he slaughtered (sacrificed) two horned rams, black and white in color."
Hadith - 191
Narrated Ziyad bin Jubair: I saw Ibn `Umar passing by a man who had made his Badana sit to slaughter it.
Ibn `Umar said, "Slaughter it while it is standing with one leg tied up as is the tradition of Muhammad."
Hadith - 192
Narrated Anas: The Prophet (ﷺ) offered four rak`at of Zuhr prayer at Medina; and two rak`at of `Asr prayer at Dhil-Hulaifa and spent the night there, and when (the day) dawned, he mounted his Mount and started saying, "None has the right to be worshipped but Allah, and Glorified be Allah."
When he reached Al-Baida', he recited Talbiya for both Hajj and `Umra. And when he arrived at Mecca, he ordered them (his companions) to finish their Ihram.
The Prophet (ﷺ) slaughtered seven Budn (camel) with his own hands while the camels were standing. He also sacrificed two horned rams (black and white in color) at Medina.
Hadith - 193
Narrated Anas bin Malik: The Prophet (ﷺ) offered four rak`at of Zuhr prayer at Medina and two rak`at of `Asr prayer at Dhul-Hulaifa.
Narrated Aiyub: A man said: Anas said, "Then he (the Prophet (ﷺ)) passed the night there till dawn and then he offered the morning (Fajr) prayer, and mounted his Mount and when it arrived at Al-Baida', he assumed Ihram for both `Umra and Hajj."
Hadith - 194
Narrated `Ali: The Prophet (ﷺ) sent me to supervise the (slaughtering of) Budn (Hadi camels) and ordered me to distribute their meat, and then he ordered me to distribute their covering sheets and skins.
'Ali added, "The Prophet (ﷺ) ordered me to supervise the slaughtering (of the Budn) and not to give anything (of their bodies) to the butcher as wages for slaughtering."
Hadith - 195
Narrated `Ali: The Prophet (ﷺ) ordered me to supervise the (slaughtering) of Budn (Hadi camel) and to distribute their meat, skins and covering sheets in charity, and not to give anything (of their bodies) to the butcher as wages for slaughtering.
Hadith - 196
Narrated `Ali: The Prophet (ﷺ) offered one hundred Budn as Hadi and ordered me to distribute their meat (in charity) and I did so.
Then he ordered me to distribute their covering sheets in charity and I did so. Then he ordered me to distribute their skins in charity and I did so.
Hadith - 197
Narrated Ibn Juraij: `Ata' said, "I heard Jabir bin `Abdullah saying, 'We never ate the meat of the Budn for more than three days of Mina.
Later, the Prophet (ﷺ) gave us permission by saying: 'Eat and take (meat) with you.' So we ate (some) and took (some) with us.'"
I asked `Ata', "Did Jabir say (that they went on eating the meat) till they reached Medina?" `Ata' replied, "No."
Hadith - 198
Narrated `Amra: I heard `Aisha saying, "We set out (from Medina) along with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) five days before the end of Dhul-Qa'da with the intention of performing Hajj only.
When we approached Mecca, Allah's Apostle ordered those who had no Hadi along with them to finish the Ihram after performing Tawaf of the Ka`ba, (and Safa and Marwa).
`Aisha added, "Beef was brought to us on the Day of Nahr and I said, 'What is this?' Somebody said, 'The Prophet (ﷺ) has slaughtered (cows) on behalf of his wives.'"
Hadith - 199
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: The Prophet (ﷺ) was asked about a person who had his head shaved before slaughtering (his Hadi) (or other similar ceremonies of Hajj). He replied, "There is no harm, there is no harm."
Hadith - 200
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: A man said to the Prophet (ﷺ) "I performed the Tawaf-al-Ifada before the Rami (throwing pebbles at the Jamra)." The Prophet (ﷺ) replied, "There is no harm." 
The man said, "I had my head shaved before slaughtering." The Prophet (ﷺ) replied, "There is no harm."
He said, "I have slaughtered the Hadi before the Rami." The Prophet (ﷺ) replied, "There is no harm."
Hadith - 201
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: The Prophet (ﷺ) was asked by a man who said, "I have done the Rami in the evening." The Prophet (ﷺ) replied, "There is no harm in it."
Another man asked, "I had my head shaved before the slaughtering." The Prophet (ﷺ) replied, "There is no harm in it."
Hadith - 202
Narrated Abu Musa: I came upon Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) when he was at Al-Batha. He asked me, "Have you intended to perform the Hajj?" I replied in the affirmative.
He asked, "For what have you assumed Ihram?" I replied, "I have assumed Ihram with the same intention as that of the Prophet (ﷺ)."
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "You have done well! Go and perform Tawaf round the Ka`ba and between Safa and Marwa."
Then I went to one of the women of Bani Qais and she took out lice from my head. Later, I assumed the Ihram for Hajj.
So, I used to give this verdict to the people till the caliphate of `Umar.
When I told him about it, he said, "If we take (follow) the Holy Book, then it orders us to complete Hajj and `Umra (Hajj-at-Tamattu`), and if we follow the tradition of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) then Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) did not finish his Ihram till the Hadi had reached its destination (had been slaughtered) (i.e. Hajj-al-Qiran)."
Hadith - 203
Narrated Ibn `Umar: Hafsa said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! What is wrong with the people; they finished their Ihram after performing `Umra, but you have not finished it after your `Umra?"
He replied, "I matted my hair and have garlanded my Hadi. So, I cannot finish my Ihram till I slaughter (my Hadi)."
Hadith - 204
Narrated Ibn `Umar: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) got his head shaved after performing his Hajj.
Hadith - 205
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "O Allah! Be merciful to those who have their head shaved."
The people said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! And (invoke Allah for) those who get their hair cut short."
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O Allah! Be merciful to those who have their head shaved." The people said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! And those who get their hair cut short."
The Prophet (ﷺ) said (the third time), "And to those who get their hair cut short."
Nafi` said that the Prophet (ﷺ) had said once or twice, "O Allah! Be merciful to those who get their head shaved," and on the fourth time he added, "And to those who have their hair cut short."
Hadith - 206
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "O Allah! Forgive those who get their heads shaved." The people asked, "Also those who get their hair cut short?"
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O Allah! Forgive those who have their heads shaved." The people said, "Also those who get their hair cut short?"
The Prophet (invoked Allah for those who have their heads shaved and) at the third time said, "also (forgive) those who get their hair cut short."
Hadith - 207
Narrated `Abdullah: The Prophet (ﷺ) and some of his companions got their heads shaved, and some others got their hair cut short.
Hadith - 208
Narrated Muawiya: I cut short the hair of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) with a long blade.
Hadith - 209
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: When the Prophet (ﷺ) came to Mecca, he ordered his Companions to perform Tawaf round the Ka`ba and between Safa and Marwa, to finish their Ihram and get their hair shaved off or cut short.
Hadith - 210
Narrated Nafi' that Ibn 'Umar performed only one Tawaf. He would take an afternoon nap and then return to Mina. That was on the day of Nahr (slaughtering).
Hadith - 211
Narrated `Aisha: We performed Hajj with the Prophet (ﷺ) and performed Tawaf-al-ifada on the Day of Nahr (slaughtering).
Safiya got her menses and the Prophet desired from her what a husband desires from his wife.
I said to him, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! She is having her menses." He said, "Is she going to detain us?"
We informed him that she had performed Tawaf-al-Ifada on the Day of Nahr. He said, "(Then you can) depart."
Hadith - 212
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: The Prophet (ﷺ) was asked about the slaughtering, shaving (of the head), and the doing of Rami before or after the due times. He said, "There is no harm in that."
Hadith - 213
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: The Prophet (ﷺ) was asked (as regards the ceremonies of Hajj) at Mina on the Day of Nahr, and he replied that there was no harm.
Then a man said to him, "I got my head shaved before slaughtering." He replied, "Slaughter (now) and there is no harm in it."
(Another) man said, "I did the Rami (of the Jimar) after midday." The Prophet (ﷺ) replied, "There was no harm in it."
Hadith - 214
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Amr: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) stopped (for a while near the Jimar at Mina) during his last Hajj and the people started asking him questions.
A man said, "Ignorantly I got my head shaved before slaughtering." The Prophet replied, "Slaughter (now), and there is no harm in it."
Another man said, "Unknowingly I slaughtered the Hadi before doing the Rami." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Do Rami now, and there is no harm in it."
So, on that day, when the Prophet (ﷺ) was asked about anything (about the ceremonies of Hajj) done before or after (its stated time) his reply was, "Do it (now), and there is no harm."
Hadith - 215
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Amr bin Al-`As: I witnessed the Prophet (ﷺ) when he was delivering the sermon on the Day of Nahr.
A man stood up and said, "I thought that such-and-such was to be done before such-and-such. I got my hair shaved before slaughtering."
(Another said), "I slaughtered the Hadi before doing the Rami." So, the people asked about many similar things. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Do it (now) and there is no harm in all these cases."
Whenever the Prophet (ﷺ) was asked about anything on that day, he replied, "Do it (now) and there is no harm in it."
Hadith - 216
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Amr bin Al-`As: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) stopped while on his she-camel (the sub-narrator then narrated the Hadith as above).
Hadith - 217
Narrated `Ikrima: Ibn `Abbas said: "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) delivered a sermon on the Day of Nahr, and said, 'O people! (Tell me) what is the day today?' The people replied, 'It is the forbidden (sacred) day.'
He asked again, 'What town is this?' They replied, 'It is the forbidden (Sacred) town.'
He asked, 'Which month is this?' They replied, 'It is the forbidden (Sacred) month.'
He said, 'No doubt! Your blood, your properties, and your honor are sacred to one another like the sanctity of this day of yours, in this (sacred) town (Mecca) of yours, in this month of yours.' The Prophet (ﷺ) repeated his statement again and again.
After that he raised his head and said, 'O Allah! Haven't I conveyed (Your Message) to them? Haven't I conveyed Your Message to them?'"
Ibn `Abbas added, "By Him in Whose Hand my soul is, the following was his will (Prophet's will) to his followers: It is incumbent upon those who are present to convey this information to those who are absent.
Beware! Don't renegade (as) disbelievers (turn into infidels) after me, striking the necks (cutting the throats) of one another."
Hadith - 218
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) delivering a sermon at `Arafat.
Hadith - 219
Narrated Abu Bakra: The Prophet (ﷺ) delivered to us a sermon on the Day of Nahr. He said, "Do you know what is the day today?" We said, "Allah and His Apostle know better."
He remained silent till we thought that he might give that day another name. He said, "Isn't it the Day of Nahr?" We said, "It is."
He further asked, "Which month is this?" We said, "Allah and His Apostle know better."
He remained silent till we thought that he might give it another name. He then said, "Isn't it the month of Dhul-Hijja?" We replied: "Yes! It is."
He further asked, "What town is this?" We replied, "Allah and His Apostle know it better." 
He remained silent till we thought that he might give it another name. He then said, "Isn't it the forbidden (Sacred) town (of Mecca)?" We said, "Yes. It is."
He said, "No doubt, your blood and your properties are sacred to one another like the sanctity of this day of yours, in this month of yours, in this town of yours, till the day you meet your Lord.
No doubt! Haven't I conveyed Allah's message to you?" They said, "Yes."
He said, "O Allah! Be witness. So it is incumbent upon those who are present to convey it (this information) to those who are absent, because the informed one might comprehend it (what I have said) better than the present audience, who will convey it to him.
Beware! Do not renegade (as) disbelievers after me by striking the necks (cutting the throats) of one another."
Hadith - 220
Narrated Ibn `Umar: At Mina, the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Do you know what is the day today?" The people replied, "Allah and His Apostle know it better."
He said, "It is the forbidden (sacred) day. And do you know what town is this?" They replied, "Allah and His Apostle know it better."
He said, "This is the forbidden (Sacred) town (Mecca). And do you know which month is this?" The people replied, "Allah and His Apostle know it better." He said, "This is the forbidden (sacred) month."
The Prophet (ﷺ) added, "No doubt, Allah made your blood, your properties, and your honor sacred to one another like the sanctity of this day of yours in this month of yours in this town of yours."
Narrated Ibn `Umar: On the Day of Nahr (10th of Dhul-Hijja), the Prophet (ﷺ) stood in between the Jamrat during his Hajj which he performed (as in the previous Hadith) and said, "This is the greatest Day (i.e. 10th of Dhul-Hijjah)."
The Prophet (ﷺ) started saying repeatedly, "O Allah! Be Witness (I have conveyed Your Message)." He then bade the people farewell. The people said, "This is Hajjat-al-Wada."
Hadith - 221
Narrated Ibn `Umar: The Prophet (ﷺ) permitted the people who provided the pilgrims with water to stay at Mecca during the nights of Mina.
Hadith - 222
Narrated Ibn `Umar: That the Prophet (ﷺ) allowed people who provided the pilgrims with water to stay at Mecca during the nights of Mina.
Hadith - 223
Narrated Ibn `Umar: Al-Abbas asked the permission from the Prophet (ﷺ) to stay at Mecca during the nights of Mina in order to provide water to the people, so the Prophet (ﷺ) allowed him.
Hadith - 224
Narrated Wabra: I asked Ibn `Umar, "When should I do the Rami of the Jimar?" He replied, "When your leader does that."
I asked him again the same question. He replied, "We used to wait till the sun declined and then we would do the Rami (i.e. on the 11th and 12th of Dhul-Hijja)."
Hadith - 225
Narrated `Abdur-Rahman bin Yazid: `Abdullah did the Rami from the middle of the valley. So, I said, "O Abu `Abdur-Rahman! Some people do the Rami (of the Jamra) from above it (i.e. from the top of the valley)."
He said, "By Him except whom none has the right to be worshipped, this is the place from where the one on whom Surah al-Baqarah was revealed (i.e. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)) did the Rami."
Hadith - 226
Narrated `Abdur-Rahman bin Yazid: When `Abdullah reached the big Jamra (i.e. Jamrat-ul-Aqaba) he kept the Ka`ba on the left side and Mina on his right side, and threw seven pebbles (at the Jamra) and said, "The one on whom Surah al-Baqarah was revealed (i.e. the Prophet) had done the Rami similarly."
Hadith - 227
Narrated `Abdur-Rahman bin Yazid: I performed Hajj with Ibn Mas`ud, and saw him doing Rami of the big Jamra (Jamrat-ul-Aqaba) with seven small pebbles, keeping the Ka`ba on his left side and Mina on his right.
He then said, "This is the place where the one on whom Surah al-Baqarah was revealed (i.e. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)) stood."
Hadith - 228
Narrated Al-A`mash: I heard Al-Hajjaj saying on the pulpit, "The Surah in which Al-Baqara (the cow) is mentioned and the Surah in which the family of `Imran is mentioned and the Surah in which the women (An-Nisa) is mentioned."
I mentioned this to Ibrahim, and he said, `Abdur-Rahman bin Yazid told me, 'I was with Ibn Mas`ud, when he did the Rami of the Jamrat-ul-Aqaba.
He went down the middle of the valley, and when he came near the tree (which was near the Jamra) he stood opposite to it and threw seven small pebbles and said: "Allahu-Akbar" on throwing every pebble.'
Then he said, 'By Him, except Whom none has the right to be worshipped, here (at this place) stood the one on whom Surah Al-Baqarah was revealed (i.e. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)).'
Hadith - 229
Narrated Salim: Ibn `Umar used to do Rami of the Jamrat-ud-Dunya (the Jamra near to the Khaif mosque) with seven small stones and used to recite Takbir on throwing every pebble.
He then would go ahead till he reached the level ground where he would stand facing the Qibla for a long time to invoke (Allah) while raising his hands (while invoking).
Then he would do Rami of the Jamrat-ul-Wusta (middle Jamra) and then he would go to the left towards the middle ground, where he would stand facing the Qibla.
He would remain standing there for a long period to invoke (Allah) while raising his hands, and would stand there for a long period.
Then he would do Rami of the Jamrat-ul-Aqaba from the middle of the valley, but he would not stay by it, and then he would leave and say, "I saw the Prophet (ﷺ) doing like this."
Hadith - 230
Narrated Salim bin `Abdullah: `Abdullah bin `Umar used to do Rami of the Jamrat-ud-Dunya with seven small pebbles and used to recite Takbir on throwing each stone.
He, then, would proceed further till he reached the level ground, where he would stay for a long time, facing the Qibla to invoke (Allah) while raising his hands.
Then he would do Rami of the Jamrat-ul-Wusta similarly and would go to the left towards the level ground, where he would stand for a long time facing the Qibla to invoke (Allah) while raising his hands.
Then he would do Rami of the Jamrat-ul-Aqaba from the middle of the valley, but he would not stay by it. Ibn `Umar used to say, "I saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) doing like that."
Hadith - 231
Narrated Az-Zuhri: Whenever Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) stoned the Jamra near Mina Mosque, he would do Ramy of it with seven small pebbles and say Takbir on throwing each pebble.
Then he would go ahead and stand facing the Qiblah with his hands raised, and invoke (Allah) and he used to stand for a long period.
Then he would come to the second Jamra (Al-Wusta) and stone it will seven small stones, reciting Takbir on throwing each stone.
Then he would stand facing the Qiblah with raised hands to invoke (Allah).
Then he would come to the Jamra near the 'Aqaba (Jamrat-ul-'Aqaba) and do Ramy of it with seven small pebbles, reciting Takbir on throwing each stone. He, then, would leave and not stay by it.
Narrated Az-Zuhri: I heard Salim bin 'Abdullah saying the same, that his father said on the authority of the Prophet (ﷺ). And Ibn 'Umar used to do the same.
Hadith - 232
Narrated `Abdur-Rahman bin Al-Qasim: I heard my father, who was the best man of his age, saying, "I heard `Aisha saying, 'I perfumed Allah's Apostle with my own hands before finishing his Ihram, while yet he had not performed Tawaf-al-Ifada.' She spread her hands (while saying so).
Hadith - 233
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: The people were ordered to perform the Tawaf of the Ka`ba (Tawaf-al-Wada`) as the lastly thing, before leaving (Mecca), except the menstruating women who were excused.
Hadith - 234
Narrated Anas bin Malik: The Prophet (ﷺ) offered the Zuhr, `Asr, Maghrib and the `Isha' prayers, and slept for a while at a place called Al-Muhassab, and then rode to the Ka`ba and performed Tawaf round it.
Hadith - 235
Narrated `Aisha: Safiya bint Huyay, the wife of the Prophet (ﷺ) got her menses, and Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was informed of that.
He said, "Would she delay us?" The people said, "She has already performed Tawaf-al-Ifada." He said, "Therefore she will not (delay us)."
Hadith - 236
Narrated `Ikrima: The people of Medina asked Ibn `Abbas about a woman who got her menses after performing Tawaf-al-Ifada. He said, "She could depart (from Mecca)."
They said, "We will not act on your verdict and ignore the verdict of Zaid." Ibn `Abbas said, "When you reach Medina, inquire about it."
So, when they reached Medina they asked (about that). One of those whom they asked was Um Sulaim. She told them the narration of Safiya.
Hadith - 237
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: A menstruating woman was allowed to leave Mecca if she had done Tawaf-al-Ifada.
Tawus (a subnarrator) said from his father, "I heard Ibn `Umar saying that she would not depart. Then later I heard him saying that the Prophet (ﷺ) had allowed them (menstruating women) to depart."
Hadith - 238
Narrated `Aisha: We set out with the Prophet (ﷺ) with the intention of performing Hajj only.
The Prophet (ﷺ) reached Mecca and performed Tawaf of the Ka`ba and between Safa and Marwa and did not finish the Ihram, because he had the Hadi with him.
His companions and his wives performed Tawaf (of the Ka`ba and between Safa and Marwa), and those who had no Hadi with them finished their Ihram.
I got the menses and performed all the ceremonies of Hajj. So, when the Night of Hasba (night of departure) came, I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! All your companions are returning with Hajj and `Umra except me."
He asked me, "Didn't you perform Tawaf of the Ka`ba (Umra) when you reached Mecca?" I said, "No."
He said, "Go to Tan`im with your brother `Abdur-Rahman, and assume Ihram for `Umra, and I will wait for you at such-and-such a place."
So I went with `Abdur-Rahman to Tan`im and assumed Ihram for `Umra.
Then Safiya bint Huyay got menses. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "'Aqra Halqa! You will detain us! Didn't you perform Tawaf-al-Ifada on the Day of Nahr (slaughtering)?"
She said, "Yes, I did." He said, "Then there is no harm, depart." So I met the Prophet (ﷺ) when he was ascending the heights towards Mecca and I was descending, or vice-versa.
Hadith - 239
Narrated `Abdul-Aziz bin Rufa`i: I asked Anas bin Malik, "Tell me something you have observed about the Prophet (ﷺ) concerning where he offered the Zuhr prayer on the Day of Tarwiya (8th Dhul-Hijja)." Anas replied, "He offered it at Mina."
I said, "Where did he offer the `Asr prayer on the Day of Nafr (day of departure from Mina)?" He replied, "At Al-Abtah," and added, "You should do as your leaders do."
Hadith - 240
Narrated Anas bin Malik: The Prophet (ﷺ) offered the Zuhr, `Asr, Maghrib and `Isha' prayers and slept for a while at a place called Al-Muhassab, and then he rode towards the Ka`ba and performed Tawaf (al-Wada).
Hadith - 241
Narrated `Aisha: It (i.e. Al-Abtah) was a place where the Prophet (ﷺ) used to camp so that it might be easier for him to depart.
Hadith - 242
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: Staying at Al-Muhassab is not one of the ceremonies (of Hajj), but Al-Muhassab is a place where Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) camped (during his Hajjat-al-Wida).
Hadith - 243
Narrated Nafi`: Ibn `Umar used to spend the night at Dhi-Tuwa in between the two Thaniyas, and then he would enter Mecca through the Thaniya which is at the higher region of Mecca, and whenever he came to Mecca for Hajj or `Umra, he never made his she camel kneel down except near the gate of the Masjid (Sacred Mosque) and then he would enter (it) and go to the Black (stone) Corner and start from there circumambulating the Ka`ba seven times: hastening in the first three rounds (Ramal) and walking in the last four.
On finishing, he would offer two rak`at prayer and set out to perform Tawaf between Safa and Marwa before returning to his dwelling place.
On returning (to Medina) from Hajj or `Umra, he used to make his camel kneel down at Al-Batha which is at Dhul-Hulaifa, the place where the Prophet used to make his camel kneel down.
Hadith - 244
Narrated Khalid bin Al-Harith: 'Ubaidullah was asked about Al-Muhassab. 'Ubaidullah narrated: Nafi` said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), `Umar and Ibn `Umar camped there."
Nafi` added, "Ibn `Umar used to offer the Zuhr and `Asr prayers at it (i.e. Al-Muhassab)." I think he mentioned the Maghrib prayer also.
I said, "I don't doubt about `Isha' (i.e. he used to offer it there also), and he used to sleep there for a while. He used to say, 'The Prophet (ﷺ) used to do the same.'"
Hadith - 245
Narrated Nafi': Whenever Ibn 'Umar approached (Makkah), he used to pass the night at Dhi-Tuwa till dawn, and then he would enter Makkah.
On his return, he used to pass by Dhi-Tuwa and pass the night there till dawn, and he used to say that the Prophet (ﷺ) used to do the same.
Hadith - 246
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: Dhul-Majaz and `Ukaz were the markets of the people during the Pre-Islamic period of ignorance.
When the people embraced Islam, they disliked to do bargaining there till the following Holy Verses were revealed: There is no harm for you if you seek of the bounty of your Lord (during Hajj by trading, etc) (Surah 2: Ayah 198)
Hadith - 247
Narrated `Aisha: Safiya got her menses on the night of Nafr (departure from Hajj), and she said, "I see that I will detain you."
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Aqra Halqa! Did she perform the Tawaf on the Day of Nahr (slaughtering)?" Somebody replied in the affirmative. He said, "Then depart."
(Different narrators mentioned that) `Aisha said, "We set out with Allah's Apostle (from Medina) with the intention of performing Hajj only. When we reached Mecca, he ordered us to finish the Ihram.
When it was the night of Nafr (departure), Safiya bint Huyay got her menses. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Halqa Aqra! I think that she will detain you." and added, "Did you perform the Tawaf (Al-Ifada) on the Day of Nahr (slaughtering)?" She replied, "Yes." He said, "Then depart."
I said, "O Allah's Apostle! I have not (done the Umra)." He replied, "Perform `Umra from Tan`im."
My brother went with me and we came across the Prophet (ﷺ) in the last part of the night. He said, "Wait at such-and-such a place."