Hadith - 1
Narrated Abu Huraira: You people say that Abu Huraira tells many narrations from Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and you also wonder why the emigrants and Ansar do not narrate from Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as Abu Huraira does.
My emigrant brothers were busy in the market while I used to stick to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) content with what fills my stomach; so I used to be present when they were absent and I used to remember when they used to forget, and my Ansari brothers used to be busy with their properties and I was one of the poor men of Suffa. I used to remember the narrations when they used to forget.
No doubt, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) once said, "Whoever spreads his garment till I have finished my present speech and then gathers it to himself, will remember whatever I will say."
So, I spread my colored garment which I was wearing till Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had finished his saying, and then I gathered it to my chest. So, I did not forget any of that narrations.
Hadith - 2
Narrated Ibrahim bin Sa`d from his father from his grandfather: `Abdur Rahman bin `Auf said, "When we came to Medina as emigrants, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) established a bond of brotherhood between me and Sa`d bin Ar-Rabi`.
Sa`d bin Ar-Rabi` said (to me), 'I am the richest among the Ansar, so I will give you half of my wealth and you may look at my two wives and whichever of the two you may choose, I will divorce her, and when she has completed the prescribed period (before marriage) you may marry her.'
`Abdur-Rahman replied, "I am not in need of all that. Is there any marketplace where trade is practiced?" He replied, "The market of Qainuqa."
`Abdur-Rahman went to that market the following day and brought some dried buttermilk (yogurt) and butter, and then he continued going there regularly.
Few days later, `Abdur-Rahman came having traces of yellow (scent) on his body. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) asked him whether he had got married. He replied in the affirmative.
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'Whom have you married?' He replied, 'A woman from the Ansar.' Then the Prophet (ﷺ) asked, 'How much did you pay her?' He replied, '(I gave her) a gold piece equal in weight to a date stone (or a date stone of gold)!'
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'Give a Walima (wedding banquet) even if with one sheep.'
Hadith - 3
Narrated Anas: When `Abdur-Rahman bin `Auf came to Medina, the Prophet (ﷺ) established a bond of brotherhood between him and Sa`d bin Ar-Rabi al-Ansari. Sa`d was a rich man, so he said to `Abdur-Rahman, "I will give you half of my property and will help you marry." 
`Abdur-Rahman said (to him), "May Allah bless you in your family and property. Show me the market." So `Abdur-Rahman did not return from the market till he gained some dried buttermilk (yogurt) and butter (through trading). He brought that to his house-hold.
We stayed for sometime (or as long as Allah wished), and then `Abdur-Rahman came, scented with yellowish perfume. The Prophet (ﷺ) said (to him) "What is this?" He replied, "I got married to an Ansari woman."
The Prophet (ﷺ) asked, "What did you pay her?" He replied, "A gold stone or gold equal to the weight of a date stone." The Prophet (ﷺ) said (to him), "Give a wedding banquet even if with one sheep."
Hadith - 4
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: `Ukaz, Majanna and Dhul-Majaz were marketplaces in the Pre-Islamic period of ignorance. When Islam came, Muslims felt that marketing there might be a sin.
So, the Divine Inspiration came: "There is no harm for you to seek the bounty of your Lord (in the seasons of Hajj)" (Surah 2: Ayah 198). Ibn `Abbas recited the Verse in this way.
Hadith - 5
Narrated An-Nu`man bin Bashir: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Both legal and illegal things are obvious, and in between them are (suspicious) doubtful matters.
So whoever forsakes those doubtful things lest he may commit a sin, will definitely avoid what is clearly illegal; and whoever indulges in these (suspicious) doubtful things bravely, is likely to commit what is clearly illegal.
Sins are Allah's Hima (i.e. private pasture) and whoever pastures (his sheep) near it, is likely to get in it at any moment."
Hadith - 6
Narrated `Abdullah bin Abu Mulaika: `Uqba bin Al-Harith said that a black woman came and claimed that she had suckled both of them (i.e. `Uqba and his wife).
So, he mentioned that to the Prophet (ﷺ) who turned his face from him and smiled and said, "How (can you keep your wife), and it was said (that both of you were suckled by the same woman)?" His wife was the daughter of Abu Ihab-al-Tamimi.
Hadith - 7
Narrated Aisha: `Utba bin Abu Waqqas took a firm promise from his brother Sa`d bin Abu Waqqas to take the son of the slave-girl of Zam`a into his custody as he was his (i.e. `Utba's) son.
In the year of the Conquest (of Mecca) Sa`d bin Abu Waqqas took him, and said that he was his brother's son, and his brother took a promise from him to that effect.
'Abu bin Zam`a got up and said, "He is my brother and the son of the slave-girl of my father and was born on my father's bed."
Then they both went to the Prophet (ﷺ). Sa`d said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! He is the son of my brother and he has taken a promise from me that I will take him." 'Abu bin Zam`a said, "(He is) my brother and the son of my father's slave-girl and was born on my father's bed."
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The boy is for you, O 'Abu bin Zam`a." Then the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The son is for the bed (i.e. the man on whose bed he was born) and stones (disappointment and deprivation) for the one who has done illegal sexual intercourse."
The Prophet (ﷺ) told his wife Sauda bint Zam`a to screen herself from that boy as he noticed a similarity between the boy and `Utba. So, the boy did not see her till he died.
Hadith - 8
Narrated `Adi bin Hatim: I asked Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) about Al-Mirad (i.e. a sharp-edged piece of wood or a piece of wood provided with a piece of iron used for hunting).
He replied, "If the game is hit by its sharp edge, eat it, and if it is hit by its broad side, do not eat it, for it has been beaten to death."
I asked, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! I release my dog by the name of Allah and find with it, at the game, another dog on which I have not mentioned the name of Allah, and I do not know which one of them caught the game."
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said (to him), 'Don't eat it, as you have mentioned the name of Allah on your dog and not on the other dog.'
Hadith - 9
Narrated Anas: The Prophet (ﷺ) passed by a fallen date and said, "Were it not for my doubt that this might have been given in charity, I would have eaten it." And narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I found a datefruit fallen on my bed."
Hadith - 10
Narrated `Abbas bin Tamim that his uncle said: The Prophet (ﷺ) was asked: "If a person feels something during his prayer; should one interrupt his prayer?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said: "No! You should not give it up unless you hear a sound or smell something."
Narrated Ibn Abi Hafsa: Az-Zuhri said, "There is no need of repeating ablution unless you detect a smell or hear a sound."
Hadith - 11
Narrated `Aisha: Some people said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Meat is brought to us by some people and we are not sure whether the name of Allah has been mentioned on it or not (at the time of slaughtering the animals)." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said (to them), "Mention the name of Allah and eat it."
Hadith - 12
Narrated Jabir: While we were offering the prayer with the Prophet (ﷺ), a caravan carrying food came from Sham. The people looked towards the caravan (and went to it) and only twelve persons remained with the Prophet.
So, the Divine Inspiration came, "But when they see some bargain or some amusement, they disperse headlong to it" (Surah 62: Ayah 11)
Hadith - 13
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "A time will come when one will not care how one gains one's money, legally or illegally."
Hadith - 14
Narrated Abu Al-Minhal: I used to practice money exchange, and I asked Zaid bin 'Arqam about it, and he narrated what the Prophet said in the following: Abu Al-Minhal said, "I asked Al-Bara' bin `Azib and Zaid bin Arqam about practicing money exchange.
They replied, 'We were traders in the time of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and I asked Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) about money exchange. He replied, 'If it is from hand to hand, there is no harm in it; otherwise it is not permissible.'"
Hadith - 15
Narrated 'Ubaid bin `Umair: Abu Musa asked `Umar to admit him but he was not admitted as `Umar was busy, so Abu Musa went back. When `Umar finished his job he said, "Didn't I hear the voice of `Abdullah bin Qais? Let him come in." `Umar was told that he had left.
So, he sent for him and on his arrival, he (Abu Musa) said, "We were ordered to do so (i.e. to leave if not admitted after asking permission thrice). `Umar told him, "Bring witness in proof of your statement."
Abu Musa went to the Ansar's meeting places and asked them. They said, "None amongst us will give this witness except the youngest of us, Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri."
Abu Musa then took Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri (to `Umar) and `Umar said, surprisingly, "Has this order of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) been hidden from me?" (Then he added), "I used to be busy trading in markets."
Hadith - 16
Abu Hurairah said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) mentioned a person from Bani Israel who travelled by sea and carried out his needs." Then he narrated the whole story.
Hadith - 17
Narrated Jabir: A caravan arrived (at Medina) while we were offering the Jumua prayer with the Prophet. The people left out for the caravan, with the exception of twelve persons.
Then this Verse was revealed: 'But when they see some bargain or some amusement, they disperse headlong to it and leave you standing' (Surah 62: Ayah 11)
Hadith - 18
Narrated `Aisha: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If a woman gives in charity from her house meals without wasting (i.e. being extravagant), she will get the reward for her giving, and her husband will also get the reward for his earning and the storekeeper will also get a similar reward.
The acquisition of the reward of none of them will reduce the reward of the others.
Hadith - 19
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If a woman gives something (i.e. in charity) from her husband's earnings without his permission, she will get half his reward."
Hadith - 20
Narrated Anas bin Malik: I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "Whoever desires an expansion in his sustenance and age, should keep good relations with his Kith and kin."
Hadith - 21
Narrated `Aisha: The Prophet (ﷺ) purchased food grains from a Jew on credit and mortgaged his iron armor to him.
Hadith - 22
Narrated Qatada: Anas went to the Prophet (ﷺ) with barley bread having some dissolved fat on it. The Prophet (ﷺ) had mortgaged his armor to a Jew in Medina and took from him some barley for his family.
Anas heard him saying, "The household of Muhammad did not possess even a single Sa of wheat or food grains for the evening meal, although he has nine wives to look after."
Hadith - 23
Narrated `Aisha: When Abu Bakr As-Siddiq was chosen Caliph, he said, "My people know that my profession was not incapable of providing substance to my family. And as I will be busy serving the Muslim nation, my family will eat from the National Treasury of Muslims, and I will practice the profession of serving the Muslims."
Hadith - 24
Narrated Aisha: The companions of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to practice manual labor, so their sweat used to smell, and they were advised to take a bath.
Hadith - 25
Narrated Al-Miqdam: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Nobody has ever eaten a better meal than that which one has earned by working with one's own hands. The Prophet of Allah David (ﷺ) used to eat from the earnings of his manual labor."
Hadith - 26
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The Prophet David (ﷺ) used not to eat except from the earnings of his manual labor."
Hadith - 27
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "No doubt, it is better for any one of you to cut a bundle of wood and carry it over his back rather than to ask someone who may or may not give him."
Hadith - 28
Narrated Az-Zubair bin Al-Awwam: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "One would rather take a rope and cut wood and carry it than ask others."
Hadith - 29
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "May Allah's mercy be on him who is lenient in his buying, selling, and in demanding back his money."
Hadith - 30
Narrated Hudhaifa: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Before your time, the angels received the soul of a man and asked him, 'Did you do any good deeds (in your life)?' He replied, 'I used to order my employees to grant time to the rich person to pay his debts at his convenience.' 
So Allah said to the angels, "Excuse him."
Rabi said that (the dead man said), 'I used to be easy to the rich and grant time to the poor.' Or, in another narration, 'grant time to the well-off and forgive the needy,' or, 'accept from the well-off and forgive the needy.'
Hadith - 31
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "There was a merchant who used to lend to the people, and whenever his debtor was in straitened circumstances, he would say to his employees, 'Forgive him, so that Allah may forgive us.' So, Allah forgave him.
Hadith - 32
Narrated Hakim bin Hizam: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The seller and the buyer have the right to keep or return goods as long as they have not parted or till they part; and if both the parties spoke the truth and described the defects and qualities (of the goods), then they would be blessed in their transaction, and if they told lies or hid something, then the blessings of their transaction would be lost."
Hadith - 33
Narrated Abu Sa`id: We used to be given mixed dates (from the booty) and used to sell (barter) two Sas of those dates for one Sa (of good dates).
The Prophet (ﷺ) said (to us), "No (bartering of) two Sas for one Sa nor two Dirhams for one Dirham is permissible", (as that is a kind of usury).
Hadith - 34
Narrated Abu Mas`ud: An Ansari man, called Abu Shu'aib, came and told his butcher slave, "Prepare meals sufficient for five persons, for I want to invite the Prophet (ﷺ) along with four other persons as I saw signs of hunger on his face."
Abu Shu'aib invited them and another person came along with them. The Prophet (ﷺ) said (to Abu Shu'aib), "This man followed us, so if you allow him, he will join us, and if you want him to return, he will go back." Abu Shu'aib said, "No, I have allowed him (i.e. he, too, is welcomed to the meal)."
Hadith - 35
Narrated Hakim bin Hizam: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The buyer and the seller have the option to cancel or to confirm the deal, as long as they have not parted or till they part, and if they spoke the truth and told each other the defects of the things, then blessings would be in their deal, and if they hid something and told lies, the blessing of the deal would be lost."
Hadith - 36
Narrated Abu Hurairah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Certainly a time will come when people will not bother to know from where they earned the money, by lawful means or unlawful means."
Hadith - 37
Narrated Aisha: When the last Verses of Surat al-Baqara were revealed, the Prophet (ﷺ) recited them in the mosque and proclaimed the trade of alcohol as illegal.
Hadith - 38
Narrated Samura bin Jundub: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "This night I dreamt that two men came and took me to a Holy land, whence we proceeded on till we reached a river of blood, where a man was standing, and on its bank was standing another man with stones in his hands.
The man in the middle of the river tried to come out, but the other threw a stone in his mouth and forced him to go back to his original place. So, whenever he tried to come out, the other man would throw a stone in his mouth and force him to go back to his former place.
I asked, 'Who is this?' I was told, 'The person in the river was a Riba-eater.'"
Hadith - 39
Narrated `Aun bin Abu Juhaifa: My father bought a slave who practiced the profession of cupping. (My father broke the slave's instruments of cupping). I asked my father why he had done so.
He replied, "The Prophet (ﷺ) forbade the acceptance of the price of a dog or blood, and also forbade the profession of tattooing, getting tattooed and receiving or giving Riba, (usury), and cursed the picture-makers."
Hadith - 40
Narrated Abu Huraira: I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "The swearing (by the seller) may persuade the buyer to purchase the goods, but that will be deprived of Allah's blessing."
Hadith - 41
Narrated `Abdullah bin Abu `Aufa: A man displayed some goods in the market and swore by Allah that he had been offered so much for that, that which was not offered, and he said so, so as to cheat a Muslim.
On that occasion, the following Verse was revealed: "Verily! Those who purchase a small gain at the cost of Allah's covenant and their oaths (They shall have no portion in the Hereafter...)" (Surah 3: Ayah 77)
Hadith - 42
Narrated `Ali: I got an old she-camel as my share from the booty, and the Prophet (ﷺ) had given me another from Al-Khumus.
And when I intended to marry Fatima (daughter of the Prophet), I arranged that a goldsmith from the tribe of Bani Qainuqa' would accompany me in order to bring Idhkhir and then sell it to the goldsmiths, and use its price for my marriage banquet.
Hadith - 43
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Allah made Mecca a sanctuary and it was neither permitted for anyone before, nor will it be permitted for anyone after me (to fight in it). And fighting in it was made legal for me for a few hours of a day only.
None is allowed to uproot its thorny shrubs or to cut down its trees or to chase its game or to pick up its Luqata (fallen things) except by a person who would announce it publicly."
`Abbas bin `Abdul-Muttalib requested the Prophet, "Except Al-Idhkhir, for our goldsmiths and for the roofs of our houses." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Except Al-Idhkhir."
`Ikrima said, "Do you know what is meant by chasing its game? It is to drive it out of the shade and sit in its place." Khalid said, "(`Abbas said: Al-Idhkhir) for our goldsmiths and our graves."
Hadith - 44
Narrated Khabbab: I was a blacksmith in the Pre-Islamic period, and 'As bin Wa'il owed me some money, so I went to him to demand it. He said (to me), "I will not pay you unless you disbelieve Muhammad."
I said, "I will not disbelieve till Allah kills you and then you get resurrected." He said, "Leave me till I die and get resurrected, then I will be given wealth and children and I will pay you your debt."
On that occasion it was revealed to the Prophet: 'Have you seen him who disbelieved in Our signs and says: "Surely I will be given wealth and children?" Has he known the unseen, or has he taken a covenant from the Beneficent (Allah)?' (Surah 19: Ayat 77-78)
Hadith - 45
Narrated 'Is-haq bin `Abdullah bin Abu Talha: I heard Anas bin Malik saying, "A tailor invited Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) to a meal which he had prepared. "
Anas bin Malik said, "I accompanied Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) to that meal. He served the Prophet (ﷺ) with bread and soup made with gourd and dried meat. I saw the Prophet (ﷺ) taking the pieces of gourd from the dish." Anas added, "Since that day I have continued to like gourd."
Hadith - 46
Narrated Abu Hazim: I heard Sahl bin Sa`d saying, "A woman brought a Burda (i.e. a square piece of cloth having edging). I asked, 'Do you know what a Burda is?' They replied in the affirmative and said, "It is a cloth sheet with woven margins."
Sahl went on, "She addressed the Prophet (ﷺ) and said, 'I have woven it with my hands for you to wear.' The Prophet (ﷺ) took it as he was in need of it, and came to us wearing it as a waist sheet.
One of us said, 'O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Give it to me to wear.' The Prophet (ﷺ) agreed to give it to him. The Prophet (ﷺ) sat with the people for a while and then returned (home), wrapped that waist sheet and sent it to him.
The people said to that man, 'You haven't done well by asking him for it, when you know that he never turns down anybody's request.' The man replied, 'By Allah, I have not asked him for it, except to use it as my shroud when I die.'"
Sahl added, "Later it (i.e. that sheet) was his shroud."
Hadith - 47
Narrated Abu Hazim: Some men came to Sahl bin Sa`d to ask him about the pulpit. He replied, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) sent for a woman (Sahl named her) (this message): 'Order your slave carpenter to make pieces of wood (i.e. a pulpit) for me, so that I may sit on it while addressing the people.'
So, she ordered him to make it from the tamarisk of the forest. He brought it to her and she sent it to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) ordered it to be placed in the mosque: so, it was put and he sat on it."
Hadith - 48
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah: An Ansari woman said to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Shall I make something for you to sit on, as I have a slave who is a carpenter?" He replied, "If you wish."
So, she got a pulpit made for him. When it was Friday the Prophet (ﷺ) sat on that pulpit.
The date-palm stem near which the Prophet (ﷺ) used to deliver his sermons cried so-much-so that it was about to burst.
The Prophet (ﷺ) came down from the pulpit to the stem and embraced it and it started groaning like a child being persuaded to stop crying and then it stopped crying.
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "It has cried because of (missing) what it used to hear of the religious knowledge."
Hadith - 49
Narrated `Aisha: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) bought food grains from a Jew on credit and mortgaged his armor to him.
Hadith - 50
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah: I was with the Prophet (ﷺ) in a Ghazwa (Military Expedition) and my camel was slow and exhausted.
The Prophet came up to me and said, "O Jabir." I replied, "Yes?" He said, "What is the matter with you?" I replied, "My camel is slow and tired, so I am left behind."
So, he got down and poked the camel with his stick and then ordered me to ride. I rode the camel, and it became so fast that I had to hold it from going ahead of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ).
He then asked me, "Have you got married?" I replied in the affirmative. He asked, "A virgin or a matron?" I replied, "I married a matron."
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Why have you not married a virgin, so that you may play with her and she may play with you?" Jabir replied, "I have sisters (young in age) so I liked to marry a matron who could collect them all and comb their hair and look after them."
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "You will reach, so when you have arrived (at home), I advise you to associate with your wife (that you may have an intelligent son)."
Then he asked me, "Would you like to sell your camel?" I replied in the affirmative and the Prophet (ﷺ) purchased it for one Uqiya of gold.
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) reached before me and I reached in the morning, and when I went to the mosque, I found him at the door of the mosque. He asked me, "Have you arrived just now?" I replied in the affirmative.
He said, "Leave your camel and come into (the mosque) and pray two rak`at." I entered and offered the prayer. He told Bilal to weigh and give me one Uqiya of gold. So Bilal weighed for me fairly and I went away.
The Prophet (ﷺ) sent for me and I thought that he would return to me my camel which I hated more than anything else. But the Prophet (ﷺ) said to me, "Take your camel as well as its price."
Hadith - 51
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: `Ukaz, Majanna and Dhul-Majaz were markets in the Pre-Islamic period. When the people embraced Islam they considered it a sin to trade there.
So, the following Holy Verse came: "There is no harm for you if you seek of the bounty of your Lord (Allah) in the Hajj season" (Surah 2: Ayah 198). Ibn `Abbas recited it like this.
Hadith - 52
Narrated `Amr: Here (i.e. in Mecca) there was a man called Nawwas and he had camels suffering from the disease of excessive and unquenchable thirst.
Ibn `Umar went to the partner of Nawwas and bought those camels. The man returned to Nawwas and told him that he had sold those camels.
Nawwas asked him, "To whom have you sold them?" He replied, "To such-and-such Sheikh." Nawwas said, "Woe to you; By Allah, that Sheikh was Ibn `Umar."
Nawwas then went to Ibn `Umar and said to him, "My partner sold you camels suffering from the disease of excessive thirst and he had not known you."
Ibn `Umar told him to take them back. When Nawwas went to take them, Ibn `Umar said to him, "Leave them there as I am happy with the decision of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) that there is no oppression."
Hadith - 53
Narrated Abu Qatada: We set out with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) in the year of Hunain, (the Prophet (ﷺ) gave me an armor). I sold that armor and bought a garden in the region of the tribe of Bani Salama, and that was the first property I got after embracing Islam.
Hadith - 54
Narrated Abu Musa: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The example of a good companion (who sits with you) in comparison with a bad one, is like that of the musk seller and the blacksmith's bellows (or furnace); from the first you would either buy musk or enjoy its good smell, while the bellows would either burn your clothes or your house, or you get a bad nasty smell thereof."
Hadith - 55
Narrated Anas bin Malik: Abu Taiba cupped Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) so he ordered that he be paid one Sa of dates, and ordered his masters to reduce his tax (as he was a slave and had to pay a tax to them).
Hadith - 56
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: Once the Prophet (ﷺ) got his blood out (medically) and paid that person who had done it. If it had been illegal, the Prophet (ﷺ) would not have paid him.
Hadith - 57
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar: Once the Prophet (ﷺ) sent to `Umar a silken two-piece garment, and when he saw `Umar wearing it, he said to him, "I have not sent it to you to wear. It is worn by him who has no share in the Hereafter, and I have sent it to you so that you could benefit by it (i.e. sell it)."
Hadith - 58
Narrated Aisha (mother of the faithful believers): I bought a cushion with pictures on it. When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saw it, he kept standing at the door and did not enter the house.
I noticed the sign of disgust on his face, so I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! I repent to Allah and His Apostle. (Please let me know) what sin I have done." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "What about this cushion?" I replied, "I bought it for you to sit and recline on."
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The painters (i.e. owners) of these pictures will be punished on the Day of Resurrection. It will be said to them, 'Put life in what you have created (i.e. painted).'"
The Prophet (ﷺ) added, "The angels do not enter a house where there are pictures."
Hadith - 59
Narrated Anas: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O Bani Najjar! Suggest a price for your garden." Part of it was a ruin and it contained some date palms.
Hadith - 60
Narrated Ibn `Umar: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The buyer and the seller have the option to cancel or confirm the bargain before they separate from each other or if the sale is optional."
Nafi` said, "Ibn `Umar used to separate quickly from the seller if he had bought a thing which he liked."
Hadith - 61
Narrated Hakim bin Hizam: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The buyer and the seller have the option of canceling or confirming the deal unless they separate."
Hadith - 62
Narrated Ibn `Umar: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The seller and the buyer have the option of canceling or confirming the deal unless they separate, or one of them says to the other, 'Choose (i.e. decide to cancel or confirm the bargain now)." Perhaps he said, 'Or if it is an optional sale.'"
Ibn `Umar, Shuraih, Ash-Shu`bi, Tawus, Ata, and Ibn Abu Mulaika agree upon this judgment.
Hadith - 63
Narrated Hakim bin Hizam: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The buyer and the seller have the option of canceling or confirming the bargain unless they separate, and if they spoke the truth and made clear the defects of the goods, then they would be blessed in their bargain, and if they told lies and hid some facts, their bargain would be deprived of Allah's blessings."
Hadith - 64
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Both the buyer and the seller have the option of canceling or confirming a bargain unless they separate, or the sale is optional."
Hadith - 65
Narrated Ibn `Umar: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Both the buyer and the seller have the option of canceling or confirming the bargain, as long as they are still together; and unless they separate or one of them gives the other the option of keeping or returning the things and a decision is concluded then, in which case the bargain is considered final.
If they separate after the bargain and none of them has rejected it, then the bargain is rendered final."
Hadith - 66
Narrated Ibn `Umar: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "No deal is settled and finalized unless the buyer and the seller separate, except if the deal is optional (whereby the validity of the bargain depends on the stipulations agreed upon)."
Hadith - 67
Narrated Hakim bin Hizam: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Both the buyer and the seller have the option of canceling or confirming the bargain unless they separate."
The sub-narrator, Hammam said, "I found this in my book: 'Both the buyer and the seller give the option of either confirming or canceling the bargain three times, and if they speak the truth and mention the defects, then their bargain will be blessed, and if they tell lies and conceal the defects, they might gain some financial gain, but they will deprive their sale of (Allah's) blessings.'"
Hadith - 68
Narrated Ibn 'Umar: We were accompanying the Prophet (ﷺ) on a journey and I was riding an unmanageable camel belonging to 'Umar, and I could not bring it under my control.
So, it used to go ahead of the party and 'Umar would check it and force it to retreat, and again it went ahead and again 'Umar forced it to retreat.
The Prophet (ﷺ) asked 'Umar to sell that camel to him. 'Umar replied, "It is for you, O Allah's Messenger!"
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) told 'Umar to sell that camel to him (not to give it as gift). So, 'Umar sold it to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ).
Then the Prophet (ﷺ) said to 'Abdullah bin 'Umar, "This camel is for you, O 'Abdullah (as a present) and you could do with it whatever you like."
Hadith - 69
Narrated 'Abdullah bin 'Umar: I bartered my property in Khaibar to 'Uthman (chief of the faithful believers) for his property in Al-Wadi.
When we finished the deal, I left immediately and got out of his house lest he should cancel the deal, for the tradition was that the buyer and the seller had the option of canceling the bargain unless they separated.
When our deal was completed, I came to know that I have been unfair to 'Uthman, for by selling him my land, I caused him to be in a land of Thamud, at a distance of three days journey from Al-Madina, while he made me nearer to Al-Madina, at a distance of three days journey from my former land.
Hadith - 70
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar: A person came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and told him that he was always betrayed in purchasing. The Prophet (ﷺ) told him to say at the time of buying, "No cheating."