Hadith - 71
Narrated `Aisha: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "An army will invade the Ka`ba and when the invaders reach Al-Baida', all the ground will sink and swallow the whole army."
I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! How will they sink into the ground while amongst them will be their markets (the people who worked in business and not invaders) and the people not belonging to them?"
The Prophet (ﷺ) replied, "All of those people will sink but they will be resurrected and judged according to their intentions."
Hadith - 72
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The congregational prayer of anyone amongst you is more than twenty five (or twenty seven) times in reward than his prayer in the market or in his house, for if he performs ablution completely and then goes to the mosque with the sole intention of performing the prayer, and nothing urges him to proceed to the mosque except the prayer, then, on every step which he takes towards the mosque, he will be raised one degree or one of his sins will be forgiven.
The angels will keep on asking Allah's forgiveness and blessings for everyone of you so long as he keeps sitting at his praying place. The angels will say, 'O Allah, bless him! O Allah, be merciful to him!' as long as he does not do Hadath or a thing which gives trouble to the other."
The Prophet (ﷺ) further said, "One is regarded in prayer so long as one is waiting for the prayer."
Hadith - 73
Narrated Anas bin Malik: While the Prophet (ﷺ) was in the market, somebody called, "O Abul-Qasim." The Prophet (ﷺ) turned to him. The man said, "I have called to this (i.e. another man)."
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Name yourselves by my name, but not by my Kunya (name)." (In Arabic world it is the custom to call the man as the father of his eldest son, e.g. Abul-Qasim.)
Hadith - 74
Narrated Anas: A man at Al-Baqi' called, "O Abul-Qasim!" The Prophet (ﷺ) turned to him and the man said (to the Prophet), "I did not intend to call you."
The Prophet said, "Name yourselves by my name but not by my Kunya (name)."
Hadith - 75
Narrated Abu Huraira Ad-Dausi: Once the Prophet (ﷺ) went out during the day. Neither did he talk to me nor I to him till he reached the market of Bani Qainuqa, and then he sat in the compound of Fatima's house and asked about the small boy (his grandson Al-Hasan) but Fatima kept the boy in for a while.
I thought she was either changing his clothes or giving the boy a bath. After a while, the boy came out running and the Prophet (ﷺ) embraced and kissed him and then said, 'O Allah! Love him, and love whoever loves him.'
Hadith - 76
Narrated Nafi`: Ibn `Umar told us that the people used to buy food from the caravans in the lifetime of the Prophet. The Prophet (ﷺ) used to forbid them to sell it at the very place where they had purchased it (but they were to wait) till they carried it to the market where foodstuff was sold.
Ibn `Umar said, 'The Prophet (ﷺ) also forbade the reselling of foodstuff by somebody who had bought it unless he had received it with exact full measure.'
Hadith - 77
Narrated Ata bin Yasar: I met `Abdullah bin `Amr bin Al-`As and asked him, "Tell me about the description of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) which is mentioned in Torah (i.e. Old Testament)."
He replied, 'Yes. By Allah, he is described in Torah with some of the qualities attributed to him in the Qur'an as follows: "O Prophet! We have sent you as a witness (for Allah's True religion) and a giver of glad tidings (to the faithful believers), and a warner (to the unbelievers) and guardian of the illiterates.
You are My slave and My messenger (i.e. Apostle). I have named you "Al-Mutawakkil" (who depends upon Allah). You are neither discourteous, harsh nor a noisemaker in the markets and you do not do evil to those who do evil to you, but you deal with them with forgiveness and kindness.
Allah will not let him (the Prophet) die till he makes straight the crooked people by making them say: "None has the right to be worshipped but Allah," with which will be opened blind eyes and deaf ears and enveloped hearts.
Hadith - 78
Narrated `Abdullah Ibn `Umar: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "He who buys foodstuff should not sell it till he is satisfied with the measure with which he has bought it."
Hadith - 79
Narrated Jabir: `Abdullah bin `Amr bin Haram died and was in debt to others. I asked the Prophet (ﷺ) to intercede with his creditors for some reduction in the debts. The Prophet (ﷺ) requested them (to reduce the debts), but they refused.
The Prophet (ﷺ) said to me, "Go and put your dates (in heaps) according to their different kinds. The Ajwa on one side, the cluster of Ibn Zaid on another side, etc. Then call me."
I did that and called the Prophet (ﷺ). He came and sat at the head or in the middle of the heaps and ordered me, "Measure (the dates) for the people (creditors)."
I measured for them till I paid all the debts. My dates remained as if nothing had been taken from them.
In other narrations, Jabir said: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "He (i.e. `Abdullah) continued measuring for them till he paid all the debts." The Prophet (ﷺ) said (to `Abdullah), "Cut (clusters) for him (i.e. one of the creditors) and measure for him fully."
Hadith - 80
Narrated Al-Miqdam bin Ma'diyakrib: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Measure your foodstuff and you will be blessed."
Hadith - 81
Narrated `Abdullah bin Zaid: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The Prophet Abraham (ﷺ) made Mecca a sanctuary, and asked for Allah's blessing in it. I made Medina a sanctuary as Abraham made Mecca a sanctuary, and I asked for Allah's Blessing in its measures - the Mudd and the Sa - as Abraham did for Mecca."
Hadith - 82
Narrated Anas bin Malik: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "O Allah, bestow your blessings on their measures, bless their Mudd and Sa." The Prophet (ﷺ) meant the people of Medina.
Hadith - 83
Narrated Salim that his father said, "I saw those, who used to buy foodstuff without measuring or weighing in the life time of the Prophet (ﷺ) being punished if they sold it before carrying it to their own houses."
Hadith - 84
Narrated Tawus: Ibn `Abbas said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade the selling of foodstuff before its measuring and transferring into one's possession."
I asked Ibn `Abbas, "How is that?" Ibn `Abbas replied, "It will be just like selling money for money, as the foodstuff has not been handed over to the first purchaser who is the present seller."
Hadith - 85
Narrated Ibn `Umar: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "He who buys foodstuff should not sell it till he has received it."
Hadith - 86
Narrated Az-Zuhri from Malik bin Aus: That the latter said, "Who has change?" Talha said, "I (will have change) when our storekeeper comes from the forest."
Malik bin Aus narrated from `Umar bin Al-Khattab: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The bartering of gold for gold is Riba (usury), except if it is from hand to hand and equal in amount, and wheat grain for wheat grain is usury except if it is from hand to hand and equal in amount, and dates for dates is usury except if it is from hand to hand and equal in amount, and barley for barley is usury except if it is from hand to hand and equal in amount."
Hadith - 87
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: The Prophet (ﷺ) forbade the selling of foodstuff before receiving it. I consider that all types of sellings should be done similarly.
Hadith - 88
Narrated Ibn `Umar: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The buyer of foodstuff should not sell it before it has been measured for him."
Isma`il narrated instead, "He should not sell it before receiving it."
Hadith - 89
Narrated Ibn `Umar: I saw the people buy foodstuff randomly (i.e. blindly without measuring it) in the lifetime of Allah's Apostle and they were punished (by beating), if they tried to sell it before carrying it to their own houses.
Hadith - 90
Narrated Aisha: Rarely did the Prophet (ﷺ) fail to visit Abu Bakr's house everyday, either in the morning or in the evening.
When the permission for migration to Medina was granted, all of a sudden the Prophet (ﷺ) came to us at noon and Abu Bakr was informed, who said, "Certainly the Prophet (ﷺ) has come for some urgent matter."
The Prophet (ﷺ) said to Abu Bakr, when the latter entered, "Let nobody stay in your home." Abu Bakr said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! There are only my two daughters (namely `Aisha and Asma') present."
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I feel (am informed) that I have been granted the permission for migration." Abu Bakr said, "I will accompany you, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)!" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "You will accompany me."
Abu Bakr then said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! I have two she-camels I have prepared specially for migration, so I offer you one of them." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I have accepted it on the condition that I will pay its price."
Hadith - 91
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Do not urge somebody to return what he has already bought (i.e. in optional sale) from another seller, so as to sell him your own goods."
Hadith - 92
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade the selling of things by a town dweller on behalf of a desert dweller; and similarly Najsh was forbidden.
And one should not urge somebody to return the goods to the seller so as to sell him his own goods; nor should one demand the hand of a girl who has already been engaged to someone else; and a woman should not try to cause some other woman to be divorced in order to take her place.
Hadith - 93
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah: A man decided that a slave of his would be manumitted after his death and later on he was in need of money, so the Prophet (ﷺ) took the slave and said, "Who will buy this slave from me?"
Nu'aim bin `Abdullah bought him for such-and-such price and the Prophet (ﷺ) gave him the slave.
Hadith - 94
Narrated Ibn `Umar: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade Najsh.
Hadith - 95
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade the sale called 'Habal-al-Habala which was a kind of sale practiced in the Pre-Islamic Period of ignorance.
One would pay the price of a she-camel which was not born yet would be born by the immediate offspring of an extant she-camel.
Hadith - 96
Narrated Abu Sa`id: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade the selling by Munabadha, i.e. to sell one's garment by casting it to the buyer not allowing him to examine or see it.
Similarly he forbade the selling by Mulamasa. Mulamasa is to buy a garment, for example, by merely touching it, not looking at it.
Hadith - 97
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) forbade two kinds of dressing; (one of them) is to sit with one's legs drawn up while wrapped in one garment. (The other) is to lift that garment on one's shoulders.
And also forbade two kinds of sale: Al-Limas and An-Nibadh.
Hadith - 98
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade selling by Mulamasa and Munabadha.
Hadith - 99
Narrated Abu Sa`id: The Prophet (ﷺ) forbade two kinds of dresses and two kinds of sale, i.e., Mulamasa and Munabadha.
Hadith - 100
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Don't keep camels and sheep unmilked for a long time, for whoever buys such an animal has the option to milk it and then either to keep it or return it to the owner along with one Sa of dates."
Some narrated from Ibn Seereen (that the Prophet (ﷺ) had said), "One Sa of wheat, and he has the option for three days."
And some narrated from Ibn Seereen, "...a Sa of dates," not mentioning the option for three days. But a Sa of dates is mentioned in most narrations.
Hadith - 101
Narrated `Abdullah bin Mas`ud: Whoever buys a sheep which has not been milked for a long time, has the option of returning it along with one Sa of dates; and the Prophet (ﷺ) forbade going to meet the seller on the way (as he has no knowledge of the market price and he may sell his goods at a low price).
Hadith - 102
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Do not go forward to meet the caravan (to buy from it on the way before it reaches the town).
And do not urge buyers to cancel their purchases to sell them (your own goods) yourselves, and do not practice Najsh. A town dweller should not sell the goods for the desert dweller.
Do not leave sheep unmilked for a long time, when they are on sale, and whoever buys such an animal has the option of returning it, after milking it, along with a Sa of dates or keeping it. It has been kept unmilked for a long period by the seller (to deceive others)."
Hadith - 103
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Whoever buys a sheep which has been kept unmilked for a long period, and milks it, can keep it if he is satisfied, and if he is not satisfied, he can return it, but he should pay one Sa of dates for the milk."
Hadith - 104
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If a slave-girl commits illegal sexual intercourse and it is proved beyond doubt, then her owner should lash her and should not blame her after the legal punishment.
And then if she repeats the illegal sexual intercourse, he should lash her again and should not blame her after the legal punishment, and if she commits it a third time, then he should sell her, even for a hair rope."
Hadith - 105
Narrated Abu Huraira and Zaid bin Khalid: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was asked about the slave-girl, if she was a virgin and committed illegal sexual intercourse.
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If she committed illegal sexual intercourse, lash her, and if she did it a second time, then lash her again, and if she repeated the third time, then sell her even for a hair rope."
Ibn Shihab said, "I don't know whether to sell her after the third or fourth offense."
Hadith - 106
Narrated `Aisha: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) came to me and I told him about the slave-girl (Barirah). Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Buy and manumit her, for the Wala is for the one who manumits."
In the evening, the Prophet (ﷺ) got up and glorified Allah as He deserved and then said, "Why do some people impose conditions which are not present in Allah's Book (Laws)?
Whoever imposes such a condition as is not in Allah's Laws, then that condition is invalid even if he imposes one hundred conditions, for Allah's conditions are more binding and reliable."
Hadith - 107
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar: Aisha wanted to buy Barirah and he (the Prophet) went out for the prayer. When he returned, she told him that they (her masters) refused to sell her except on the condition that her Wala' would go to them.
The Prophet (ﷺ) replied, 'The Wala' would go to him who manumits.'"
Hammam asked Nafi` whether her (Barirah's) husband was a free man or a slave. He replied that he did not know.
Hadith - 108
Narrated Jarir: I have given a pledge of allegiance to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) to testify that None has the right to be worshipped but Allah, and Muhammad is His Apostle, to offer prayers perfectly, to pay Zakat, to listen to and obey (Allah's and His Prophet's orders), and to give good advice to every Muslim.
Hadith - 109
Narrated Tawus: Ibn `Abbas said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, 'Do not go to meet the caravans on the way (for buying their goods without letting them know the market price); a town dweller should not sell the goods of a desert dweller on behalf of the latter.'
I asked Ibn `Abbas, 'What does he mean by not selling the goods of a desert dweller by a town dweller?' He said, 'He should not become his broker.'
Hadith - 110
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade the selling of the goods of a desert dweller by a town person.
Hadith - 111
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "A buyer should not urge a seller to restore a purchase so as to buy it himself, and do not practice Najsh; and a town dweller should not sell goods of a desert dweller."
Hadith - 112
Narrated Anas bin Malik: We were forbidden that a town dweller should sell goods of a desert dweller.
Hadith - 113
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) forbade the meeting (of caravans) on the way and the selling of goods by an inhabitant of the town on behalf of a desert dweller.
Hadith - 114
Narrated Tawus: I asked Ibn `Abbas, "What is the meaning of, 'No town dweller should sell (or buy) for a desert dweller'?" Ibn `Abbas said, "It means he should not become his broker."
Hadith - 115
Narrated `Abdullah: Whoever buys an animal which has been kept unmilked for a long time, could return it, but has to pay a Sa of dates along with it. And the Prophet (ﷺ) forbade meeting the owners of goods on the way away from the market.
Hadith - 116
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "You should not try to cancel the purchases of one another (to get a benefit thereof), and do not go ahead to meet the caravan (for buying the goods) (but wait) till it reaches the market."
Hadith - 117
Narrated `Abdullah: We used to go ahead to meet the caravan and used to buy foodstuff from them. The Prophet (ﷺ) forbade us to sell it till it was carried to the market.
Hadith - 118
Narrated `Abdullah: Some people used to buy foodstuff at the head of the market and used to sell it on the spot. Allah's Apostle forbade them to sell it till they brought it to (their) places.
Hadith - 119
Narrated `Urwa: Aisha said, "Barira came to me and said, 'I have agreed with my masters to pay them nine Uqiyas (of gold) (in installments) one Uqiya per year; please help me.'
I said, 'I am ready to pay the whole amount now provided your masters agree that your Wala' will be for me.' So, Barira went to her masters and told them about that offer but they refused to accept it.
She returned, and at that time, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was sitting (present). Barira said, 'I told them of the offer but they did not accept it and insisted on having the Wala'.' The Prophet (ﷺ) heard that."
`Aisha narrated the whole story to the Prophet. He said to her, "Buy her and stipulate that her Wala' would be yours as the Wala' is for the manumitter." `Aisha did so.
Then Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) stood up in front of the people, and after glorifying Allah, he said, "Amma Ba`du (i.e. then after)! What about the people who impose conditions which are not in Allah's Book (Laws)?
Any condition that is not in Allah's Book (Laws) is invalid even if they were one hundred conditions, for Allah's decisions are the right ones and His conditions are the strong ones (firmer) and the Wala' will be for the manumitter."
Hadith - 120
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar: Aisha, (mother of the faithful believers), wanted to buy a slave girl and manumit her, but her masters said that they would sell her only on the condition that her Wala' would be for them.
`Aisha told Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) of that. He said, "What they stipulate should not hinder you from buying her, as the Wala' is for the manumitted."
Hadith - 121
Narrated Ibn `Umar: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The selling of wheat for wheat is Riba (usury) except if it is handed from hand to hand and equal in amount.
Similarly, the selling of barley for barley is Riba except if it is from hand to hand and equal in amount, and dates for dates is usury except if it is from hand to hand and equal in amount."
Hadith - 122
Narrated Ibn `Umar: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade Muzabana; and Muzabana is the selling of fresh dates for dried old dates by measure, and the selling of fresh grapes for dried grapes by measure.
Hadith - 123
Narrated Ibn `Umar: The Prophet (ﷺ) forbade Muzabana; and Muzabana is the selling of fresh fruit (without measuring it) for something by measure on the basis that if that thing turns to be more than the fruit, the increase would be for the seller of the fruit, and if it turns to be less, that would be of his lot.
Narrated Ibn `Umar from Zaid bin Thabit that the Prophet (ﷺ) allowed the selling of the fruits on the trees after estimation (when they are ripe).
Hadith - 124
Narrated Ibn Shihab that Malik bin Aus said, "I was in need of change for one-hundred Dinars.
Talha bin 'Ubaidullah called me and we discussed the matter, and he agreed to change (my Dinars). He took the gold pieces in his hands and fidgeted with them, and then said, "Wait till my storekeeper comes from the forest."
`Umar was listening to that and said, "By Allah! You should not separate from Talha till you get the money from him, for Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, 'The selling of gold for gold is Riba (usury) except if the exchange is from hand to hand and equal in amount, and similarly, the selling of wheat for wheat is Riba (usury) unless it is from hand to hand and equal in amount, and the selling of barley for barley is usury unless it is from hand to hand and equal in amount, and dates for dates is usury unless it is from hand to hand and equal in amount.'"
Hadith - 125
Narrated Abu Bakra: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Don't sell gold for gold unless equal in weight, nor silver for silver unless equal in weight, but you could sell gold for silver or silver for gold as you like."
Hadith - 126
Narrated Abu Sa`id: (Concerning exchange) that he heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "Do not sell gold for gold unless equal in weight, and do not sell silver unless equal in weight."
Hadith - 127
Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Do not sell gold for gold unless equivalent in weight, and do not sell less amount for greater amount or vice versa; and do not sell silver for silver unless equivalent in weight, and do not sell less amount for greater amount or vice versa, and do not sell gold or silver that is not present at the moment of exchange for gold or silver that is present."
Hadith - 128
Narrated Abu Salih Az-Zaiyat: I heard Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri saying, "The selling of a Dinar for a Dinar, and a Dirham for a Dirham (is permissible)." I said to him, "Ibn `Abbas does not say the same."
Abu Sa`id replied, "I asked Ibn `Abbas whether he had heard it from the Prophet (ﷺ) or seen it in the Holy Book.
Ibn `Abbas replied, "I do not claim that, and you know Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) better than I, but Usama informed me that the Prophet had said, 'There is no Riba (in money exchange) except when it is not done from hand to hand (i.e. when there is delay in payment).'"
Hadith - 129
Narrated Abu Al-Minhal: I asked Al-Bara' bin `Azib and Zaid bin Arqam about money exchanges. Each of them said, "This is better than I," and both of them said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade the selling of silver for gold on credit."
Hadith - 130
Narrated `Abdur-Rahman bin Abu Bakra that his father said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) forbade the selling of gold for gold and silver for silver except if they are equivalent in weight, and allowed us to sell gold for silver and vice versa as we wished."
Hadith - 131
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Do not sell fruits of dates until they become free from all the dangers of being spoilt or blighted; and do not sell fresh dates for dry dates."
Narrated Salim and `Abdullah from Zaid bin Thabit, "Later on Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) permitted the selling of ripe fruits on trees for fresh dates or dried dates in Bai'-al-'Araya, and did not allow it for any other kind of sale."
Hadith - 132
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade Muzabana; and Muzabana means the selling of fresh dates (on the trees) for dried dates by measure and also the selling of fresh grapes for dried grapes by measure.
Hadith - 133
Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade Muzabana and Muhaqala; and Muzabana means the selling of ripe dates for dates still on the trees.
Hadith - 134
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: The Prophet (ﷺ) forbade Muzabana and Muhaqala.
Hadith - 135
Narrated Zaid bin Thabit: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) allowed the owner of 'Araya to sell the fruits on the trees by means of estimation.
Hadith - 136
Narrated Jabir: The Prophet (ﷺ) forbade the selling of fruits unless they get ripe, and none of them should be sold except for Dinar or Dirham (i.e. money), except the 'Araya trees (the dates of which could be sold for dates).
Hadith - 137
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) allowed the sale of the dates of 'Araya provided they were about five Awsuq (singular: Wasaq, which means sixty Sa's) or less (in amount).
Hadith - 138
Narrated Sahl bin Abu Hathma: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade the selling of fruits (fresh dates) for dried dates, but allowed the sale of fruits on the 'Araya by estimation and their new owners might eat their dates fresh.
Sufyan (in another narration) said, "I told Yahya (a sub-narrator) when I was a mere boy, 'Meccans say that the Prophet (ﷺ) allowed them the sale of the fruits on 'Araya by estimation.'
Yahya asked, 'How do the Meccans know about it?' I replied, 'They narrated it (from the Prophet (ﷺ)) through Jabir.' On that, Yahya kept quiet."
Sufyan said, "I meant that Jabir belonged to Medina." Sufyan was asked whether in Jabir's narration there was any prohibition of selling fruits before their benefit is evident (i.e. no dangers of being spoilt or blighted). He replied that there was none.
Hadith - 139
Narrated Ibn `Umar from Zaid bin Thabit: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) allowed the sale of 'Araya by estimating the dates on them for measured amounts of dried dates. Musa bin `Uqba said, "Al-'Araya were distinguished date palms; one could come and buy them (i.e. their fruits)."
Hadith - 140
Zaid bin Thabit said, "In the lifetime of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), the people used to trade with fruits.
When they cut their date-fruits and the purchasers came to recieve their rights, the seller would say, 'My dates have got rotten, they are blighted with disease, they are afflicted with Qusham (a disease which causes the fruit to fall before ripening).' They would go on complaining of defects in their purchases.
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Do not sell the fruits before their benefit is evident (i.e. free from all the dangers of being spoiled or blighted)," by way of advice for they quarrelled too much.
Kharija bin Zaid bin Thabit said that Zaid bin Thabit used not to sell the fruits of his land till Pleiades appeared and one could distinguish the yellow fruits from the red (ripe) ones.
Hadith - 141
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade the sale of fruits till their benefit is evident. He forbade both the seller and the buyer (such sale).
Hadith - 142
Narrated Anas: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade the sale of date fruits till they were ripe. Abu `Abdullah (Al-Bukhari) said, "That means till they were red (can be eaten)."
Hadith - 143
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah: The Prophet (ﷺ) forbade the sale of (date) fruits till they were red or yellow and fit for eating.
Hadith - 144
Narrated Anas bin Malik: The Prophet (ﷺ) forbade the sale of fruits till their benefit is evident; and the sale of date palms till the dates are almost ripe. He was asked what 'are almost ripe' meant. He replied, "Got red and yellow."
Hadith - 145
Narrated Anas bin Malik: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade the sale of fruits till they are almost ripe. He was asked what is meant by 'are almost ripe.' He replied, "Till they become red."
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) further said, "If Allah spoiled the fruits, what right would one have to take the money of one's brother (i.e. other people)?"
Hadith - 146
Narrated Ibn Shihab: If somebody bought fruits before their benefit is evident and then the fruits were spoiled with blights, the loss would be suffered by the owner (not the buyer).
Narrated Salim bin 'Abdullah from Ibn Umar: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Do not sell or buy fruits before their benefit was evident and do not sell fresh fruits (dates) for dried dates."