Hadith - 147
Narrated `Aisha: The Prophet (ﷺ) bought some foodstuff from a Jew on credit and mortgaged his armor to him.
Hadith - 148
Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri and Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) appointed somebody as a governor of Khaibar. That governor brought to him an excellent kind of dates (from Khaibar).
The Prophet (ﷺ) asked, "Are all the dates of Khaibar like this?" He replied, "By Allah, no, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! But we barter one Sa of this (type of dates) for two Sas of dates of ours, and two Sas of it for three of ours."
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Do not do so (as that is a kind of usury) but sell the mixed dates (of inferior quality) for money, and then buy good dates with that money."
Hadith - 149
Narrated Nafi', the freed slave of Ibn 'Umar: If pollinated date-palms are sold and nothing is mentioned (in the contract) about their fruits, the fruits will go to the person who has pollinated them, and so will be the case with the slave and the cultivator. Nafi' mentioned those three things.
Hadith - 150
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If somebody sells pollinated date palms, the fruits will be for the seller unless the buyer stipulates that they will be for himself (and the seller agrees)."
Hadith - 151
Narrated Ibn `Umar: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade Al-Muzabana, i.e. to sell ungathered dates of one's garden for measured dried dates or fresh ungathered grapes for measured dried grapes; or standing crops for measured quantity of foodstuff. He forbade all such bargains.
Hadith - 152
Narrated Ibn `Umar: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Whoever pollinates date palms and then sells them, the fruits will belong to him unless the buyer stipulates that the fruits should belong to him (and the seller agrees)."
Hadith - 153
Narrated Anas bin Malik: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade Muhaqala, Mukhadara, Mulamasa, Munabadha and Muzabana.
Hadith - 154
Narrated Humaid: Anas said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) forbade the selling of dates till they were almost ripe." We asked Anas, "What does 'almost ripe' mean?" He replied, "They get red and yellow."
The Prophet (ﷺ) added, 'If Allah destroyed the fruits present on the trees, what right would the seller have to take the money of his brother (somebody else)?'
Hadith - 155
Narrated Ibn `Umar: I was with the Prophet (ﷺ) while he was eating fresh dates. He said, "From the trees there is a tree which resembles a faithful believer."
I wanted to say that it was the date palm, but I was the youngest among them (so I kept quiet). He added, "It is the date palm."
Hadith - 156
Narrated Anas bin Malik: Abu Taiba cupped Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and so Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) ordered that a Sa of dates be paid to him and ordered his masters (for he was a slave) to reduce his tax.
Hadith - 157
Narrated `Aisha: Hind, the mother of Mu'awiya said to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), "Abu Sufyan (her husband) is a miser. Am I allowed to take from his money secretly?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said to her, "You and your sons may take what is sufficient reasonably and fairly."
Hadith - 158
Narrated Hisham bin `Urwa from his father, who heard Aisha saying, "The Holy Verse, 'Whoever amongst the guardians is rich, he should take no wages (from the property of the orphans) but if he is poor, let him have for himself what is just and reasonable (according to his labors)' (Surah 4: Ayah 6) was revealed concerning the guardian of the orphans who looks after them and manages favorably their financial affairs; If the guardian is poor, he could have from it what is just and reasonable, (according to his labors)."
Hadith - 159
Narrated Jabir: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) gave pre-emption (to the partner) in every joint property, but if the boundaries of the property were demarcated or the ways and streets were fixed, then there was no pre-emption.
Hadith - 160
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) decided the validity of pre-emption in every joint undivided property, but if the boundaries were well marked or the ways and streets were fixed, then there was no pre-emption.
Hadith - 161
Narrated Mussaddad from `Abdul Wahid: the same as above, but said, "...in every joint undivided thing..." Narrated Hisham from Ma`mar the same as above but said, "... in every property."
Hadith - 162
Narrated Ibn `Umar: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "While three persons were walking, rain began to fall and they had to enter a cave in a mountain. A big rock rolled over and blocked the mouth of the cave.
They said to each other, 'Invoke Allah with the best deed you have performed (so Allah might remove the rock)'.
One of them said, 'O Allah! My parents were old and I used to go out for grazing (my animals). On my return I would milk (the animals) and take the milk in a vessel to my parents to drink. After they had drunk from it, I would give it to my children, family and wife.
One day I was delayed and on my return I found my parents sleeping, and I disliked to wake them up. The children were crying at my feet (because of hunger). That state of affairs continued till it was dawn.
O Allah! If You regard that I did it for Your sake, then please remove this rock so that we may see the sky.' So, the rock was moved a bit.
The second said, 'O Allah! You know that I was in love with a cousin of mine, like the deepest love a man may have for a woman, and she told me that I would not get my desire fulfilled unless I paid her one-hundred Dinars (gold pieces).
So, I struggled for it till I gathered the desired amount, and when I sat in between her legs, she told me to be afraid of Allah, and asked me not to deflower her except rightfully (by marriage). So, I got up and left her.
O Allah! If You regard that I did it for Your sake, kindly remove this rock.' So, two-thirds of the rock was removed.
Then the third man said, 'O Allah! No doubt You know that once I employed a worker for one Faraq (three Sa's) of millet, and when I wanted to pay him, he refused to take it, so I sowed it and from its yield I bought cows and a shepherd.
After a time, that man came and demanded his money. I said to him: "Go to those cows and the shepherd and take them for they are for you." He asked me whether I was joking with him. I told him that I was not joking with him, and all that belonged to him.
O Allah! If You regard that I did it sincerely for Your sake, then please remove the rock.' So, the rock was removed completely from the mouth of the cave.
Hadith - 163
Narrated `Abdur-Rahman bin Abu Bakr: We were with the Prophet (ﷺ) when a tall pagan with long matted unkempt hair came driving his sheep.
The Prophet (ﷺ) asked him, "Are those sheep for sale or for gifts?" The pagan replied, "They are for sale." The Prophet (ﷺ) bought one sheep from him.
Hadith - 164
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The Prophet Abraham (ﷺ) emigrated with Sarah and entered a village where there was a king or a tyrant. (The king) was told that Abraham had entered (the village) accompanied by a woman who was one of the most charming women.
So, the king sent for Abraham and asked, 'O Abraham! Who is this lady accompanying you?' Abraham replied, 'She is my sister (i.e. in religion).'
Then Abraham returned to her and said, 'Do not contradict my statement, for I have informed them that you are my sister. By Allah, there are no true believers on this land except you and I.' Then Abraham sent her to the king.
When the king got to her, she got up and performed ablution, prayed and said, 'O Allah! If I have believed in You and Your Apostle, and have saved my private parts from everybody except my husband, then please do not let this pagan overpower me.'
On that, the king fell in a mood of agitation and started moving his legs. Seeing the condition of the king, Sarah said, 'O Allah! If he should die, the people will say that I have killed him.'
The king regained his power, and proceeded towards her but she got up again and performed ablution, prayed and said, 'O Allah! If I have believed in You and Your Apostle and have kept my private parts safe from all except my husband, then please do not let this pagan overpower me.'
The king again fell in a mood of agitation and started moving his legs. On seeing that state of the king, Sarah said, 'O Allah! If he should die, the people will say that I have killed him.'
The king got either two or three attacks, and after recovering from the last attack he said, 'By Allah! You have sent a satan to me. Take her to Abraham and give her Ajar.'
So she came back to Abraham and said, "Allah humiliated the pagan and gave us a slave-girl for service."
Hadith - 165
Narrated `Aisha: Sa`d bin Abi Waqqas and 'Abu bin Zam`a quarreled over a boy. Sa`d said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! This boy is the son of my brother (`Utba bin Abi Waqqas) who took a promise from me that I would take him as he was his (illegal) son. Look at him and see whom he resembles."
'Abu bin Zam`a said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! This is my brother and was born on my father's bed from his slave-girl."
Allah's Apostle cast a look at the boy and found definite resemblance to `Utba and then said, "The boy is for you, O 'Abu bin Zam`a. The child goes to the owner of the bed and the adulterer gets nothing but the stones (despair, i.e. to be stoned to death)."
Then the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O Sauda bint Zama! Screen yourself from this boy." So, Sauda never saw him again.
Hadith - 166
Narrated Sa`d that his father said: `Abdur-Rahman bin `Auf said to Suhaib, 'Fear Allah and do not ascribe yourself to somebody other than your father.'
Suhaib replied, 'I would not like to say it even if I were given large amounts of money, but I say I was kidnapped in my childhood.'
Hadith - 167
Narrated `Urwa bin Az-Zubair: Hakim bin Hizam said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! I used to do good deeds in the Pre-Islamic period of Ignorance, e.g., keeping good relations with my Kith and kin, manumitting slaves and giving alms. Shall I receive a reward for all that?" 
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) replied, "You embraced Islam with all the good deeds which you did in the past."
Hadith - 168
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Abbas: Once Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) passed by a dead sheep and said to the people, "Wouldn't you benefit by its skin?" The people replied that it was dead. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "But its eating only is illegal."
Hadith - 169
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "By Him in Whose Hands my soul is, son of Mary (Jesus) will shortly descend amongst you people (Muslims) as a just ruler and will break the Cross and kill the pig and abolish the Jizya (a tax taken from the non-Muslims, who are in the protection of the Muslim government).
Then there will be abundance of money and nobody will accept charitable gifts."
Hadith - 170
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: Once `Umar was informed that a certain man sold alcohol. `Umar said, "May Allah curse him! Doesn't he know that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, 'May Allah curse the Jews, for Allah had forbidden them to eat the fat of animals, but they melted it and sold it.'"
Hadith - 171
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "May Allah curse the Jews, because Allah made fat illegal for them, but they sold it and ate its price."
Hadith - 172
Narrated Sa`id bin Abu Al-Hasan: While I was with Ibn `Abbas, a man came and said, "O father of `Abbas! My sustenance is from my manual profession and I make these pictures."
Ibn `Abbas said, "I will tell you only what I heard from Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) . I heard him saying, 'Whoever makes a picture will be punished by Allah till he puts life in it, and he will never be able to put life in it.'"
Hearing this, that man heaved a sigh and his face turned pale. Ibn `Abbas said to him, "What a pity! If you insist on making pictures I advise you to make pictures of trees and any other unanimated objects."
Hadith - 173
Narrated `Aisha: When the last verses of Surah al-Baqarah were revealed, the Prophet (ﷺ) went out (of his house to the Mosque) and said, "The trade of alcohol has become illegal."
Hadith - 174
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Allah says, 'I will be against three persons on the Day of Resurrection:
1: One who makes a covenant in My Name, but he proves treacherous. 
2: One who sells a free person (as a slave) and eats the price,
3: And one who employs a laborer and gets the full work done by him but does not pay him his wages.
Hadith - 175
Narrated Anas: Amongst the captives was Safiya. First she was given to Dihya Al-Kalbi and then to the Prophet.
Hadith - 176
Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri that while he was sitting with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) he said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! We get female captives as our share of booty, and we are interested in their prices, what is your opinion about coitus interruptus?"
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Do you really do that? It is better for you not to do it. No soul that which Allah has destined to exist, but will surely come into existence."
Hadith - 177
Narrated Jabir: The Prophet (ﷺ) sold a Mudabbar (on behalf of his master who was still living and in need of money).
Hadith - 178
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) sold a Mudabbar.
Hadith - 179
Narrated Zaid bin Khalid and Abu Huraira that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was asked about an unmarried slave-girl who committed illegal sexual intercourse. They heard him saying, "Flog her, and if she commits illegal sexual intercourse after that, flog her again, and on the third (or the fourth) offense, sell her."
Hadith - 180
Narrated Abu Huraira: I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "If a slave-girl of yours commits illegal sexual intercourse and her illegal sexual intercourse is proved, she should be lashed, and after that nobody should blame her, and if she commits illegal sexual intercourse the second time, she should be lashed and nobody should blame her after that, and if she does the offense for the third time and her illegal sexual intercourse is proved, she should be sold even for a hair rope."
Hadith - 181
Narrated Anas bin Malik: The Prophet (ﷺ) came to Khaibar, and when Allah made him victorious and he conquered the town by breaking the enemy's defense, the beauty of Safiya bint Huyai bin Akhtab was mentioned to him and her husband had been killed while she was a bride.
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) selected her for himself and he set out in her company till he reached Sadd-ar-Rawha' where her menses were over and he married her.
Then Hais (a kind of meal) was prepared and served on a small leather sheet (used for serving meals).
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) then said to me, "Inform those who are around you (about the wedding banquet)." So that was the marriage banquet given by Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) for (his marriage with) Safiya.
After that we proceeded to Medina and I saw that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was covering her with a cloak while she was behind him. Then he would sit beside his camel and let Safiya put her feet on his knees to ride (the camel).
Hadith - 182
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah: I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), in the year of the Conquest of Mecca, saying, "Allah and His Apostle made illegal the trade of alcohol, dead animals, pigs and idols."
The people asked, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! What about the fat of dead animals, for it was used for greasing the boats and the hides; and people use it for lights?" He said, "No, it is illegal."
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) further said, "May Allah curse the Jews, for Allah made the fat (of animals) illegal for them, yet they melted the fat and sold it and ate its price."
Hadith - 183
Narrated Abu Mas`ud Al-Ansari: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade taking the price of a dog, money earned by prostitution and the earnings of a soothsayer.
Hadith - 184
Narrated `Aun bin Abu Juhaifa: I saw my father buying a slave whose profession was cupping, and ordered that his instruments (of cupping) be broken. I asked him the reason for doing so.
He replied, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) prohibited taking money for blood, the price of a dog, and the earnings of a slave-girl by prostitution; he cursed her who tattoos and her who gets tattooed, the eater of Riba (usury), and the maker of pictures."