Hadith - 1
Narrated `Abdullah bin Mas'ud: I asked Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! What is the best deed?" He replied, "To offer the prayers at their early stated fixed times."
I asked, "What is next in goodness?" He replied, "To be good and dutiful to your parents."
I further asked, "What is next in goodness?" He replied, "To participate in Jihad in Allah's Cause." I did not ask Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) anymore, and if I had asked him more, he would have told me more.
Hadith - 2
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "There is no Hijra (i.e. migration) (from Mecca to Medina) after the Conquest (of Mecca), but Jihad and good intention remain; and if you are called (by the Muslim ruler) for fighting, go forth immediately."
Hadith - 3
Narrated `Aisha: (That she said), "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! We consider Jihad as the best deed. Should we not fight in Allah's Cause?" He said, "The best Jihad (for women) is Hajj-Mabrur (i.e. Hajj which is done according to the Prophet's tradition and is accepted by Allah)."
Hadith - 4
Narrated Abu Huraira: A man came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and said, "Instruct me as to such a deed as equals Jihad (in reward)." He replied, "I do not find such a deed."
Then he added, "Can you, while the Muslim fighter is in the battle-field, enter your mosque to perform prayers without cease, and fast and never break your fast?" The man said, "But who can do that?"
Abu Huraira added, "The Mujahid (i.e. Muslim fighter) is rewarded even for the footsteps of his horse while it wanders about (for grazing) tied in a long rope."
Hadith - 5
Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri: Somebody asked, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Who is the best among the people?" Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) replied, "A believer who strives his utmost in Allah's Cause with his life and property."
They asked, "Who is next?" He replied, "A believer who stays in one of the mountain paths worshipping Allah and leaving the people secure from his mischief."
Hadith - 6
Narrated Abu Huraira: I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "The example of a Mujahid in Allah's Cause - and Allah knows better who really strives in His Cause - is like a person who fasts and prays continuously.
Allah guarantees that He will admit the Mujahid in His Cause into Paradise if he is killed, otherwise He will return him to his home safely with rewards and war booty."
Hadith - 7
Narrated Anas bin Malik: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to visit Umm Haram bint Milhan, who would offer him meals. Umm Haram was the wife of Ubada bin As-Samit.
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), once visited her and she provided him with food and started looking for lice in his head. Then Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) slept, and afterwards woke up smiling. Umm Haram asked, "What causes you to smile, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)?"
He said, "Some of my followers who (in a dream) were presented before me as fighters in Allah's cause (on board a ship) amidst this sea caused me to smile; they were as kings on the thrones (or like kings on the thrones)." (Ishaq, a sub-narrator is not sure as to which expression the Prophet (ﷺ) used.)
Umm Haram said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Invoke Allah that he makes me one of them." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) invoked Allah for her and slept again and woke up smiling. Once again Umm Haram asked, "What makes you smile, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)?"
He replied, "Some of my followers were presented to me as fighters in Allah's Cause," repeating the same dream. Umm Haram said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Invoke Allah that He makes me one of them." He said, "You are amongst the first ones."
It happened that she sailed on the sea during the Caliphate of Mu'awiya bin Abi Sufyan, and after she disembarked, she fell down from her riding animal and died.
Hadith - 8
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Whoever believes in Allah and His Apostle, offers prayer perfectly and fasts the month of Ramadan, will rightfully be granted Paradise by Allah, no matter whether he fights in Allah's Cause or remains in the land where he is born."
The people said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Shall we acquaint the people with this good news?"
He said, "Paradise has one-hundred grades which Allah has reserved for the Mujahidin who fight in His Cause, and the distance between each of two grades is like the distance between the Heaven and the Earth.
So, when you ask Allah (for something), ask for Al-Firdaus, which is the best and highest part of Paradise."
(The sub-narrator added, "I think the Prophet also said, 'Above it (i.e. Al-Firdaus) is the Throne of Beneficent (i.e. Allah), and from it originate the rivers of Paradise.'")
Hadith - 9
Narrated Samura: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Last night, two men came to me (in a dream) and made me ascend a tree and then admitted me into a better and superior house, better of which I have never seen. One of them said, 'This house is the house of martyrs.'"
Hadith - 10
Narrated Anas bin Malik: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "A single endeavor (of fighting) in Allah's Cause in the forenoon or in the afternoon is better than the world and whatever is in it."
Hadith - 11
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "A place in Paradise as small as a bow is better than all that on which the sun rises and sets (i.e. all the world)."
He also said, "A single endeavor in Allah's Cause in the afternoon or in the forenoon is better than all that on which the sun rises and sets."
Hadith - 12
Narrated Sahl bin Sa`d: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "A single endeavor in Allah's Cause in the afternoon and in the forenoon is better than the world and whatever is in it."
Hadith - 13
Narrated Anas bin Malik: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Nobody who dies and finds good from Allah (in the Hereafter) would wish to come back to this world even if he were given the whole world and whatever is in it, except the martyr who, on seeing the superiority of martyrdom, would like to come back to the world and get killed again (in Allah's Cause)."
Hadith - 14
Narrated Anas: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "A single endeavor (of fighting) in Allah's Cause in the afternoon or in the forenoon is better than all the world and whatever is in it.
A place in Paradise as small as the bow or lash of one of you is better than all the world and whatever is in it.
And if a houri from Paradise appeared to the people of the earth, she would fill the space between Heaven and the Earth with light and pleasant scent, and her head cover is better than the world and whatever is in it."
Hadith - 15
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "By Him in Whose Hands my life is! Were it not for some men amongst the believers who dislike to be left behind me and whom I cannot provide with means of conveyance, I would certainly never remain behind any Sariya' (army-unit) setting out in Allah's Cause.
By Him in Whose Hands my life is! I would love to be martyred in Allah's Cause, and then get resurrected and then get martyred, and then get resurrected again and then get martyred, and then get resurrected again and then get martyred."
Hadith - 16
Narrated Anas bin Malik: The Prophet (ﷺ) delivered a sermon and said, "Zaid took the flag and was martyred, and then Ja`far took the flag and was martyred, and then `Abdullah bin Rawaha took the flag and was martyred too, and then Khalid bin Al-Walid took the flag though he was not appointed as a commander and Allah made him victorious."
The Prophet (ﷺ) further added, "It would not please us to have them with us." Aiyub, a sub-narrator, added, "Or the Prophet, shedding tears, said, 'It would not please them to be with us.'"
Hadith - 17
Narrated Anas bin Malik: Um Haram said, "Once the Prophet (ﷺ) slept in my house near to me and got up smiling. I said, 'What makes you smile?'
He replied, 'Some of my followers who (i.e. in a dream) were presented to me sailing on this green sea like kings on thrones.' I said, 'O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Invoke Allah to make me one of them.' So the Prophet (ﷺ) invoked Allah for her and went to sleep again.
He did the same (i.e. got up and told his dream) and Um Haram repeated her question and he gave the same reply. She said, "Invoke Allah to make me one of them." He said, "You are among the first batch."
Later on, it happened that she went out in the company of her husband 'Ubada bin As-Samit who went for Jihad and it was the first time the Muslims undertook a naval expedition led by Mu'awiya.
When the expedition came to an end and they were returning to Sham, a riding animal was presented to her to ride, but the animal let her fall and thus she died.
Hadith - 18
Narrated Anas: The Prophet (ﷺ) sent seventy men from the tribe of Bani Sulaim to the tribe of Bani Amir.
When they reached there, my maternal uncle said to them, "I will go ahead of you, and if they allow me to convey the message of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (it will be all right); otherwise you will remain close to me."
So he went ahead of them and the pagans granted him security. But while he was reporting the message of the Prophet (ﷺ), they beckoned to one of their men who stabbed him to death. My maternal uncle said, "Allah is Greater! By the Lord of the Ka`ba, I am successful."
After that they attacked the rest of the party and killed them all, except a lame man who went up to the top of the mountain. (Hammam, a sub-narrator said, "I think another man was saved along with him").
Gabriel informed the Prophet (ﷺ) that they (i.e. the martyrs) met their Lord, and He was pleased with them and made them pleased.
We used to recite, "Inform our people that we have met our Lord, He is pleased with us and He has made us pleased." Later on, this Qur'anic Verse was cancelled.
The Prophet (ﷺ) invoked Allah for forty days to curse the murderers from the tribe of Ra'l, Dhakwan, Bani Lihyan and Bani Usaiya who disobeyed Allah and his Apostle.
Hadith - 19
Narrated Jundub bin Sufyan: In one of the holy battles, a finger of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (got wounded and) bled. He said, "You are just a finger that bled, and what you got is in Allah's Cause."
Hadith - 20
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "By Him in Whose Hands my soul is! Whoever is wounded in Allah's Cause - and Allah knows well who gets wounded in His Cause - will come on the Day of Resurrection with his wound having the color of blood but the scent of musk."
Hadith - 21
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Abbas: That Abu Sufyan told him that Heraclius said to him, "I asked you about the outcome of your battles with him (i.e. the Prophet (ﷺ)) and you told me that you fought each other with alternate success. So the Apostles are tested in this way but the ultimate victory is always theirs."
Hadith - 22
Narrated Anas: My uncle Anas bin An-Nadr was absent from the Battle of Badr. He said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! I was absent from the first battle you fought against the pagans. (By Allah) if Allah gives me a chance to fight the pagans, no doubt, Allah will see how (bravely) I will fight."
On the day of Uhud when the Muslims turned their backs and fled, he said, "O Allah! I apologize to You for what these (i.e. his companions) have done, and I denounce what these (i.e. the pagans) have done."
Then he advanced and Sa`d bin Mu`adh met him. He said, "O Sa`d bin Mu`adh! By the Lord of An-Nadr, Paradise! I am smelling its aroma coming from before (the mountain of) Uhud."
Later on, Sa`d said, "O Allah's Apostle! I cannot achieve or do what he (i.e. Anas bin An-Nadr) did.
We found more than eighty wounds by swords and arrows on his body. We found him dead and his body was mutilated so badly that none except his sister could recognize him by his fingers."
We used to think that the following Verse was revealed concerning him and other men of his sort: "Among the believers are men who have been true to their covenant with Allah..." (Surah 33: Ayah 23)
His sister Ar-Rubayyi' broke a front tooth of a woman and Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) ordered for retaliation. On that, Anas (bin An-Nadr) said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! By Him Who has sent you with the Truth, my sister's tooth shall not be broken."
Then the opponents of Anas's sister accepted the compensation and gave up the claim of retaliation. So Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "There are some people amongst Allah's slaves whose oaths are fulfilled by Allah when they take them."
Hadith - 23
Narrated Kharija bin Zaid: Zaid bin Thabit said, "When the Qur'an was compiled from various written manuscripts, one of the Verses of Surat Al-Ahzab was missing which I used to hear Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) reciting.
I could not find it except with Khuza`ima bin Thabit Al-Ansari, whose witness Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) regarded as equal to the witness of two men. And the Verse was: "Among the believers are men who have been true to what they covenanted with Allah" (Surah 33: Ayah 23)
Hadith - 24
Narrated Al-Bara: A man whose face was covered with an iron mask (i.e. clad in armor) came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Shall I fight or embrace Islam first?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Embrace Islam first, and then fight."
So he embraced Islam, and was martyred. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "A little work, but a great reward." (He did very little (after embracing Islam), but he will be rewarded in abundance.)
Hadith - 25
Narrated Anas bin Malik: Um Ar-Rubai' bint Al-Bara', the mother of Haritha bin Suraqa came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said, "O Allah's Prophet! Will you tell me about Haritha?"
Haritha had been killed (i.e. martyred) on the day of Badr with an arrow thrown by an unidentified person. She added, "If he is in Paradise, I will be patient; otherwise, I will weep bitterly for him."
He said, "O mother of Haritha! There are Gardens in Paradise and your son got the Firdaus al-ala (i.e. the best place in Paradise)."
Hadith - 26
Narrated Abu Musa: A man came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and asked, "A man fights for war booty, another fights for fame and a third fights for showing off; which of them fights in Allah's Cause?"
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "He who fights that Allah's Word (i.e. Islam) should be superior, fights in Allah's Cause."
Hadith - 27
Narrated Abu `Abs (who is `Abdur-Rahman bin Jabir): Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Anyone whose both feet get covered with dust in Allah's Cause will not be touched by the (Hell) fire."
Hadith - 28
Narrated `Ikrima that Ibn `Abbas told him and `Ali bin `Abdullah to go to Abu Sa`id and listen to some of his narrations. So they both went (and saw) Abu Sa`id and his brother irrigating a garden belonging to them.
When he saw them, he came up to them and sat down with his legs drawn up and wrapped in his garment and said, "(During the construction of the mosque of the Prophet) we carried the adobe of the mosque one brick at a time, while `Ammar used to carry two at a time.
The Prophet (ﷺ) passed by `Ammar and removed the dust off his head and said, "May Allah be merciful to `Ammar. He will be killed by a rebellious aggressive group. `Ammar will invite them to (obey) Allah and they will invite him to the (Hell) fire."
Hadith - 29
Narrated `Aisha: When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) returned on the day (of the battle) of Al-Khandaq (i.e. Trench), he put down his arms and took a bath.
Then Gabriel whose head was covered with dust, came to him saying, "You have put down your arms! By Allah, I have not put down my arms yet."
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Where (to go now)?" Gabriel said, "This way," pointing towards the tribe of Bani Quraiza. So Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) went out towards them.
Hadith - 30
Narrated Anas bin Malik: For thirty days Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) invoked Allah to curse those who had killed the companions of Bir-Mauna; he invoked evil upon the tribes of Ra'l, Dhakwan, and Usaiya who disobeyed Allah and His Apostle.
There was revealed about those who were killed at Bir-Mauna a Qur'anic Verse we used to recite, but it was cancelled later on. The Verse was: "Inform our people that we have met our Lord. He is pleased with us and He has made us pleased."
Hadith - 31
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah: "Some people drank alcohol in the morning of the day (of the battle) of Uhud and were martyred (on the same day)."
Sufyan was asked, "(Were they martyred) in the last part of the day?" He replied, "Such information does not occur in the narration."
Hadith - 32
Narrated Jabir: My father's mutilated body was brought to the Prophet (ﷺ) and was placed in front of him. I went to uncover his face but my companions forbade me.
Then mourning cries of a lady were heard, and it was said that she was either the daughter or the sister of `Amr.
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Why is she crying?" Or said, "Do not cry, for the angels are still shading him with their wings."
(Al-Bukhari asked Sadaqa, a sub-narrator, "Does the narration include the expression: 'Till he was lifted?'" The latter replied, "Jabir may have said it").
Hadith - 33
Narrated Anas bin Malik: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Nobody who enters Paradise likes to go back to the world even if he got everything on the earth, except a Mujahid who wishes to return to the world so that he may be martyred ten times because of the dignity he receives (from Allah)."
Hadith - 34
Narrated `Abdullah bin Abi `Aufa: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Know that Paradise is under the shades of swords."
Hadith - 35
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Once Solomon, son of David said, '(By Allah) Tonight I will have sexual intercourse with one hundred (or ninety-nine) women, each of whom will give birth to a knight who will fight in Allah's Cause.'
On that, a companion (angel) said to him, "(Say) Allah willing", but he did not say, "Allah willing." Therefore only one of those women conceived and gave birth to a half-man.
By Him in Whose Hands Muhammad's life is, if he had said, "Allah willing', (he would have begotten sons) all of whom would have been knights striving in Allah's Cause."
Hadith - 36
Narrated Anas: The Prophet (ﷺ) was the best, the bravest and the most generous of all the people. Once when the people of Medina got frightened, the Prophet (ﷺ) rode a horse and went ahead of them and said, "We found this horse very fast."
Hadith - 37
Narrated Muhammad bin Jubair: Jubair bin Mut`im told me that while he was in the company of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) with the people returning from Hunain, some people (bedouins) caught hold of the Prophet (ﷺ) and started begging of him so-much-so that he had to stand under a kind of thorny tree (i.e. Samurah) and his cloak was snatched away.
The Prophet (ﷺ) stopped and said, "Give me my cloak. If I had as many camels as these thorny trees, I would have distributed them amongst you, and you will not find me a miser or a liar or a coward."
Hadith - 38
Narrated `Amr bin Maimun Al-Audi: Sa`d used to teach his sons the following words as a teacher teaches his students the skill of writing and used to say that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to seek Refuge with Allah from them (i.e. the evils) at the end of every prayer.
The words are: 'O Allah! I seek refuge with You from cowardice, and seek refuge with You from being brought back to a bad stage of old life, and seek refuge with You from the afflictions of the world, and seek refuge with You from the punishments in the grave."
Hadith - 39
Narrated Anas bin Malik: The Prophet (ﷺ) used to say, "O Allah! I seek refuge with You from helplessness, laziness, cowardice and feeble old age. I seek refuge with You from afflictions of life and death and seek refuge with You from the punishment in the grave."
Hadith - 40
Narrated As-Sa'ib bin Yazid: I was in the company of Talha bin 'Ubaidullah, Sa`d, Al-Miqdad bin Al-Aswad and `Abdur Rahman bin `Auf and I heard none of them narrating anything from Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) but Talha was talking about the day (of the battle) of Uhud.
Hadith - 41
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: On the day of the Conquest (of Mecca) the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "There is no emigration after the Conquest but Jihad and intentions. When you are called (by the Muslim ruler) for fighting, go forth immediately."
Hadith - 42
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Allah welcomes two men with a smile; one of whom kills the other and both of them enter Paradise. One fights in Allah's Cause and gets killed. Later on, Allah forgives the killer who also gets martyred (in Allah's Cause)."
Hadith - 43
Narrated Abu Huraira: I went to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) while he was at Khaibar after it had fallen in the Muslims' hands. I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Give me a share (from the land of Khaibar)."
One of the sons of Sa'id bin Al-'As said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Do not give him a share." I said, "This is the murderer of Ibn Qauqal."
The son of Said bin Al-As said, "Strange! A Wabr (i.e. guinea pig) who has come down to us from the mountain of Qadum (i.e. grazing place of sheep) blames me for killing a Muslim who was given superiority by Allah because of me, and Allah did not disgrace me at his hands (i.e. was not killed as an infidel)."
(The sub-narrator said, "I do not know whether the Prophet (ﷺ) gave him a share or not.")
Hadith - 44
Narrated Anas bin Malik: In the life-time of the Prophet, Abu Talha did not fast because of the Jihad, but after the Prophet (ﷺ) died, I never saw him without fasting except on `Id-ul-Fitr and `Id-ul-Adha.
Hadith - 45
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Five are regarded as martyrs: They are those who die because of plague, abdominal disease, drowning or a falling building etc, and the martyrs in Allah's Cause."
Hadith - 46
Narrated Anas bin Malik: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Plague is the cause of martyrdom of every Muslim (who dies because of it)."
Hadith - 47
Narrated Al-Bara: When the Divine Inspiration: "Those of the believers who sit (at home)," was revealed, the Prophet (ﷺ) sent for Zaid (bin Thabit) who came with a shoulder-blade and wrote on it.
Ibn Um-Maktum complained about his blindness, and on that the following revelation came: "Not equal are those believers who sit (at home) except those who are disabled (by injury, or are blind or lame etc) and those who strive hard and fight in the Way of Allah with their wealth and lives." (Surah 4: Ayah 95)
Hadith - 48
Narrated Sahl bin Sa`d As-Sa`idi: I saw Marwan bin Al-Hakam sitting in the Mosque. So I came forward and sat by his side.
He told us that Zaid bin Thabit had told him that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had dictated to him the Divine Verse: "Not equal are those believers who sit (at home) and those who strive hard and fight in the Cause of Allah with their wealth and lives.' (Surah 4: Ayah 95)
Zaid said, "Ibn Maktum came to the Prophet (ﷺ) while he was dictating to me that very Verse. On that, Ibn Um Maktum said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! If I had power, I would surely take part in Jihad." He was a blind man.
So Allah sent down revelation to His Apostle while his thigh was on mine, and it became so heavy for me that I feared that my thigh would be broken. Then that state of the Prophet (ﷺ) was over after Allah revealed, "...except those who are disabled (by injury or are blind or lame etc)." (Surah 4: Ayah 95)
Hadith - 49
Narrated Salim Abu An-Nadr: `Abdullah bin Abi `Aufa wrote, and I read what he wrote, that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "When you face them (i.e. your enemy) then be patient."
Hadith - 50
Narrated Anas: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) went towards the Khandaq (i.e. Trench) and saw the Emigrants and the Ansar digging in a very cold morning as they did not have slaves to do that for them.
When he noticed their fatigue and hunger, he said, "O Allah! The real life is that of the Here-after, (so please) forgive the Ansar and the Emigrants."
In its reply, the Emigrants and the Ansar said, "We are those who have given a pledge of allegiance to Muhammad that we will carry on Jihad as long as we live."
Hadith - 51
Narrated Anas: The Emigrants and the Ansar started digging the trench around Medina carrying the earth on their backs and saying, "We are those who have given a pledge of allegiance to Muhammad that we will carry on Jihad as long as we live."
The Prophet (ﷺ) kept on replying, "O Allah, there is no good except the good of the Hereafter; so confer Your Blessings on the Ansar and the Emigrants."
Hadith - 52
Narrated Al-Bara: The Prophet (ﷺ) went on carrying (i.e. the earth) and saying, "Without You (O Allah!) we would have got no guidance."
Hadith - 53
Narrated Al-Bara: On the day (of the battle) of Al-Ahzab (i.e. clans) I saw the Prophet (ﷺ) carrying earth, and the earth was covering the whiteness of his abdomen.
And he was saying, "Without You (O Allah!) we would have got no guidance, nor given in charity, nor prayed. So please bless us with tranquility and make firm our feet when we meet our enemies.
Indeed (these) people have rebelled against (oppressed) us but never shall we yield if they try to bring affliction upon us."
Hadith - 54
Narrated Anas: We returned from the Ghazwa of Tabuk along with the Prophet.
Hadith - 55
Narrated Anas: While the Prophet (ﷺ) was in a Ghazwa, he said, "Some people have remained behind us in Medina and we never crossed a mountain path or a valley, but they were with us (i.e. sharing the reward with us), as they have been held back by a (legal) excuse."
Hadith - 56
Narrated Abu Sa`id: I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "Indeed, anyone who fasts for one day for Allah's Pleasure, Allah will keep his face away from the (Hell) fire for (a distance covered by a journey of) seventy years."
Hadith - 57
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Whoever spends two things in Allah's Cause, will be called by all the gate-keepers of Paradise who will be saying, 'O so-and-so! Come here.'"
Abu Bakr said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Such persons will never be destroyed." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I hope you will be one of them."
Hadith - 58
Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) ascended the pulpit and said, "Nothing worries me as to what will happen to you after me, except the temptation of worldly blessings which will be conferred on you."
Then he mentioned the worldly pleasures. He started with the one (i.e. the blessings) and took up the other (i.e. the pleasures).
A man got up saying, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Can the good bring about evil?" The Prophet (ﷺ) remained silent and we thought that he was being inspired divinely, so all the people kept silent with awe.
Then the Prophet (ﷺ) wiped the sweat off his face and asked, "Where is the present questioner?" "Do you think wealth is good?" he repeated thrice, adding, "No doubt, good produces nothing but good.
Indeed it is like what grows on the banks of a stream which either kills or nearly kills the grazing animals because of gluttony, except the vegetation-eating animal which eats till both its flanks are full (i.e. till it gets satisfied) and then stands in the sun and defecates and urinates and again starts grazing.
This worldly property is sweet vegetation. How excellent the wealth of the Muslim is, if it is collected through legal means and is spent in Allah's Cause and on orphans, poor people and travelers.
But he who does not take it legally is like an eater who is never satisfied, and his wealth will be a witness against him on the Day of Resurrection."
Hadith - 59
Narrated Zaid bin Khalid: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "He who prepares a Ghazi going in Allah's Cause is given a reward equal to that of a Ghazi; and he who looks after properly the dependents of a Ghazi going in Allah's Cause is (given a reward equal to that of) a Ghazi."
Hadith - 60
Narrated Anas: The Prophet (ﷺ) used not to enter any house in Medina except the house of Um Sulaim besides those of his wives. When he was asked why, he said, "I take pity on her as her brother was killed in my company."
Hadith - 61
Narrated Ibn `Aun: Once Musa bin Anas, while describing the battle of Yamama, said, "Anas bin Malik went to Thabit bin Qais, who had lifted his clothes from his thighs and was applying Hunut to his body.
Anas asked, 'O Uncle! What is holding you back (from the battle)?' He replied, 'O my nephew! I am coming just now,' and went on perfuming himself with Hunut, then he came and sat (in the row). Anas then mentioned that the people fled from the battle-field.
On that, Thabit said, "Clear the way for me to fight the enemy. We would never do so (i.e. flee) in the company of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). How bad the habits you have acquired from your enemies!"
Hadith - 62
Narrated Jabir: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Who will bring me the information about the enemy on the day (of the battle) of Al-Ahzab (i.e. Clans)?" Az-Zubair said, "I will." The Prophet (ﷺ) said again, "Who will bring me the information about the enemy?" Az-Zubair said again, "I will."
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Every prophet had a disciple, and my disciple is Az-Zubair."
Hadith - 63
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah: When the Prophet (ﷺ) called the people (Sadaqa, a sub-narrator, said, 'Most likely that happened on the day of Al-Khandaq') Az-Zubair responded to the call (i.e. to act as a scout). The Prophet (ﷺ) called the people again and Az-Zubair responded to the call.
The Prophet (ﷺ) then said, "Every prophet had a disciple, and my disciple is Zubair bin Al-`Awwam."
Hadith - 64
Narrated Malik bin Al-Huwairith: On my departure from the Prophet (ﷺ) he said to me and to a friend of mine, "You two, pronounce the Adhan and the Iqama for the prayer, and let the elder of you lead the prayer."