Hadith - 65
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Good will remain (as a permanent quality) in the foreheads of horses till the Day of Resurrection."
Hadith - 66
Narrated Urwa bin Ja'd: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Good will remain (as a permanent quality) in the foreheads of horses till the Day of Resurrection."
Hadith - 67
Narrated Anas bin Malik: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "There is a blessing in the fore-heads of horses."
Hadith - 68
Narrated `Urwa Al-Bariqi: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Good will remain (as a permanent quality) in the foreheads of horses (for Jihad) till the Day of Resurrection, for they bring about either a reward (in the Hereafter) or (war) booty (in this world)."
Hadith - 69
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If somebody keeps a horse in Allah's Cause motivated by his faith in Allah and his belief in His Promise, then he will be rewarded on the Day of Resurrection for what the horse has eaten or drunk and for its dung and urine."
Hadith - 70
Narrated `Abdullah bin Abi Qatada (from his father): Abu Qatada went out (on a journey) with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) but he was left behind with some of his companions who were in the state of Ihram. He himself was not in the state of Ihram.
They saw an onager before he could see it. When they saw the onager, they did not speak anything till Abu Qatada saw it. So, he rode over his horse called Al-Jarada and requested them to give him his lash, but they refused.
So, he himself took it and then attacked the onager and slaughtered it. He ate of its meat and his companions ate, too, but they regretted their eating.
When they met the Prophet (they asked him about it) and he asked, "Have you some of its meat (left) with you?" Abu Qatada replied, "Yes, we have its leg with us." So, the Prophet (ﷺ) took and ate it.
Hadith - 71
Narrated Sahl: In our garden there was a horse belonging to the Prophet (ﷺ) called Al-Luhaif or Al-Lukhaif.
Hadith - 72
Narrated Mu`adh: I was a companion rider of the Prophet (ﷺ) on a donkey called 'Ufair. The Prophet (ﷺ) asked, "O Mu`adh! Do you know what Allah's right on His slaves is, and what the right of His slaves on Him is?" I replied, "Allah and His Apostle know better."
He said, "Allah's right on His slaves is that they should worship Him (Alone) and should not worship any besides Him. And slave's right on Allah is that He should not punish him who worships none besides Him."
I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Should I not inform the people of this good news?" He said, "Do not inform them of it, lest they should depend on it (absolutely)."
Hadith - 73
Narrated Anas bin Malik: Once there was a feeling of fright in Medina, so the Prophet (ﷺ) borrowed a horse belonging to us called Mandub (and he rode away on it).
(When the Prophet (ﷺ) returned) he said, "I have not seen anything of fright, and I found it (i.e. this horse) very fast."
Hadith - 74
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar: I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "Evil omen is in three things: The horse, the woman and the house."
Hadith - 75
Narrated Sahl bin Sa`d As-Sa'idi: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If there is any evil omen in anything, then it is in the woman, the horse and the house."
Hadith - 76
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Horses are kept for one of three purposes; for some people they are a source of reward, for some others they are a means of shelter and for some others they are a source of sins.
The one for whom they are a source of reward, is he who keeps a horse for Allah's Cause (i.e. Jihad) tying it with a long tether on a meadow or in a garden, with the result that whatever it eats from the area of the meadow or the garden where it is tied will be counted as good deeds for his benefit, and if it should break its rope and jump over one or two hillocks then all its dung and its foot marks will be written as good deeds for him; and if it passes by a river and drinks water from it even though he had no intention of watering it, even then he will get the reward for its drinking.
As for the man for whom horses are a source of sins, he is the one who keeps a horse for the sake of pride and pretense and showing enmity for Muslims: such a horse will be a source of sins for him."
When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was asked about donkeys, he replied, "Nothing has been revealed to me about them except this unique, comprehensive Verse: 'Then anyone who does an atom's (or a small ant's) weight of good shall see it; And anyone who does an atom's (or a small ant's) weight of evil, shall see it.'" (Surah 101: Ayat 7-8)
Hadith - 77
Narrated Muslim from Abu `Aqil from Abu Al-Mutawakkil An-Naji: I called on Jabir bin `Abdullah Al-Ansari and said to him, "Relate to me what you have heard from Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)."
He said, "I accompanied him on one of the journeys." (Abu `Aqil said, "I do not know whether that journey was for the purpose of Jihad or `Umra.") "When we were returning," Jabir continued, "the Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'Whoever wants to return earlier to his family, should hurry up.'
We set off and I was on a black red tainted camel having no defect, and the people were behind me. While I was in that state, the camel stopped suddenly (because of exhaustion).
On that, the Prophet (ﷺ) said to me, 'O Jabir, wait!' Then he hit it once with his lash and it started moving on a fast pace.
He then said, 'Will you sell the camel?' I replied in the affirmative. When we reached Medina, the Prophet (ﷺ) went to the Mosque along with his companions. I, too, went to him after tying the camel on the pavement at the Mosque gate.
Then I said to him, 'This is your camel.' He came out and started examining the camel and saying, 'The camel is ours.' Then the Prophet (ﷺ) sent some Awaq (i.e. an amount) of gold saying, 'Give it to Jabir.' Then he asked, 'Have you taken the full price (of the camel)?' I replied in the affirmative. He said, 'Both the price and the camel are for you.'"
Hadith - 78
Narrated Anas bin Malik: There was a feeling of fright in Medina, so the Prophet (ﷺ) borrowed a horse called Mandub belonging to Abu Talha and mounted it. (On his return), he said, "I did not see anything of fright, and I found this horse very fast."
Hadith - 79
Narrated Ibn `Umar: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) fixed two shares for the horse and one share for its rider (from the war booty).
Hadith - 80
Narrated Abu 'Is-haq: Somebody asked Al-Bara bin `Azib, "Did you flee deserting Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) during the battle of Hunain?" Al-Bara replied, "But Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) did not flee. The people of the Tribe of Hawazin were good archers.
When we met them, we attacked them, and they fled. When the Muslims started collecting the war booty, the pagans faced us with arrows, but Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) did not flee.
No doubt, I saw him on his white mule and Abu Sufyan was holding its reins and the Prophet (ﷺ) was saying, 'I am the Prophet (ﷺ) in truth, I am the son of `Abdul Muttalib.'"
Hadith - 81
Narrated Ibn `Umar: When the Prophet (ﷺ) put his feet in the stirrup and the she-camel got up carrying him, he would start reciting Talbiya at the mosque of Dhul-Hulaifa.
Hadith - 82
Narrated Anas: The Prophet (ﷺ) met them (i.e. the people) while he was riding an unsaddled horse with his sword slung over his shoulder.
Hadith - 83
Narrated Anas bin Malik: Once the people of Medina were frightened, so the Prophet (ﷺ) rode a horse belonging to Abu Talha and it ran slowly, or was of narrow paces.
When he returned, he said, "I found your (i.e. Abu Talha's) horse very fast." After that the horse could not be surpassed in running.
Hadith - 84
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar: The Prophet (ﷺ) arranged for a horse race amongst the horses that had been made lean to take place between Al-Hafya' and Thaniyat Al-Wada` (i.e. names of two places) and the horses which had not been made lean from Ath-Thaniyat to the mosque of Bani Zuraiq.
I was also amongst those who took part in that horse race. (Sufyan, a sub-narrator, said, "The distance between Al-Hafya and Thaniya Al-Wada` is five or six miles; and between Thaniya and the mosque of Bani Zuraiq is one mile.")
Hadith - 85
Narrated `Abdullah: The Prophet (ﷺ) arranged for a horse race of the horses which had not been made lean; the area of the race was from Ath-Thaniya to the mosque of Bani Zuraiq.
(The sub-narrator said, "`Abdullah bin `Umar was amongst those who participated in that horse race.")
Hadith - 86
Narrated Abu 'Is-haq from Musa bin `Uqba from Nafi` from Ibn `Umar, who said: "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) arranged a horse race amongst the horses that had been made lean, letting them start from Al-Hafya' and their limit (distance of running) was up to Thaniyat-al-Wada`.
I asked Musa, 'What was the distance between the two places?' Musa replied, 'Six or seven miles.
He arranged a race of the horses which had not been made lean, sending them from Thaniyat-al-Wada`, and their limit was up to the mosque of Bani Zuraiq.'
I asked, 'What was the distance between those two places?' He replied, 'One mile or so.' Ibn `Umar was amongst those who participated in that horse race."
Hadith - 87
Narrated Anas: The she camel of the Prophet (ﷺ) was called Al-Adba.
Hadith - 88
Narrated Anas: The Prophet (ﷺ) had a she camel called Al-Adba which could not be excelled in a race. (Humaid, a subnarrator said, "Or could hardly be excelled.")
Once, a bedouin came riding a camel below six years of age which surpassed it (i.e. Al-`Adba') in the race.
The Muslims felt it so much that the Prophet (ﷺ) noticed their distress. He then said, "It is Allah's Law that He brings down whatever rises high in the world."
Hadith - 89
Narrated `Amr bin Al-Harith: The Prophet (ﷺ) did not leave anything behind him after his death except a white mule, his arms and a piece of land which he left to be given in charity.
Hadith - 90
Narrated Al-Bara: That a man asked him, "O Abu `Umara! Did you flee on the day (of the battle) of Hunain?"
He replied, "No, by Allah, the Prophet (ﷺ) did not flee, but the hasty people fled and the people of the Tribe of Hawazin attacked them with arrows, while the Prophet (ﷺ) was riding his white mule, and Abu Sufyan bin Al-Harith was holding its reins, and the Prophet (ﷺ) was saying, 'I am the Prophet (ﷺ) in truth, I am the son of `Abdul Muttalib.'"
Hadith - 91
Narrated `Aisha (the mother of the faithful believers): I requested the Prophet (ﷺ) to permit me to participate in Jihad, but he said, "Your Jihad is the performance of Hajj."
Hadith - 92
Narrated `Aisha (the mother of the faithful believers): The Prophet (ﷺ) was asked by his wives about Jihad and he replied, "The best Jihad (for you) is (the performance of) Hajj."
Hadith - 93
Narrated Anas: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) went to the daughter of Milhan and reclined there (and slept) and then (woke up) smiling. She asked, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! What makes you smile?"
He replied, "(I dreamt that) some people amongst my followers were sailing on the green sea in Allah's Cause, resembling kings on thrones." She said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Invoke Allah to make me one of them." He said, "O Allah! Let her be one of them."
Then he (slept again and woke up and) smiled. She asked him the same question and he gave the same reply. She said, "Invoke Allah to make me one of them." He replied, "You will be amongst the first group of them; you will not be amongst the last."
Later on, she married 'Ubada bin As-Samit and then she sailed on the sea with bint Qaraza, Mu'awiya's wife (for Jihad). On her return, she mounted her riding animal, which threw her down breaking her neck, and she died on falling down.
Hadith - 94
Narrated `Aisha: Whenever the Prophet (ﷺ) intended to proceed on a journey, he used to draw lots amongst his wives and would take the one upon whom the lot fell.
Once, before setting out for Jihad, he drew lots amongst us and the lot came to me; so I went with the Prophet; and that happened after the revelation of the Verse of Hijab (i.e. veiling).
Hadith - 95
Narrated Anas: On the day (of the battle) of Uhud, when (some) people retreated and left the Prophet, I saw `Aisha bint Abu Bakr and Um Sulaim, with their robes tucked up so that the bangles around their ankles were visible, hurrying with their water skins (in another narration it is said, "carrying the water skins on their backs").
Then they would pour the water in the mouths of the people, and return to fill the water skins again, and come back again to pour water in the mouths of the people.
Hadith - 96
Narrated Tha`laba bin Abi Malik: `Umar bin Al-Khattab distributed some garments amongst the women of Medina.
One good garment remained, and one of those present with him said, "O chief of the believers! Give this garment to your wife, the (grand) daughter of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)." They meant Um Kulthum, the daughter of `Ali.
`Umar said, "Um Salit has more right (to have it)." Um Salit was amongst those Ansari women who had given the pledge of allegiance to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). `Umar said, "She (i.e. Um Salit) used to carry the water skins for us on the day of Uhud."
Hadith - 97
Narrated Ar-Rubayyi bint Mu'auwidh: We were in the company of the Prophet (ﷺ) providing the wounded with water and treating them, and bringing the killed to Medina (from the battle field).
Hadith - 98
Narrated Ar-Rubayyi bint Mu'auwidh: We used to take part in holy battles with the Prophet (ﷺ) by providing the people with water and serving them, and bringing the killed and the wounded back to Medina.
Hadith - 99
Narrated Abu Musa: Abu 'Amir was hit with an arrow in his knee, so I went to him and he asked me to remove the arrow. When I removed it, the water started dribbling from it.
Then I went to the Prophet (ﷺ) and told him about it. He said, "O Allah! Forgive `Ubaid Abu 'Amir."
Hadith - 100
Narrated `Aisha: The Prophet (ﷺ) was vigilant one night and when he reached Medina, he said, "Would that a pious man from my companions guard me tonight!"
Suddenly, we heard the clatter of arms. He said, "Who is that? " He (The newcomer) replied, "I am Sa`d bin Abi Waqqas and have come to guard you." So, the Prophet (ﷺ) slept (that night).
Hadith - 101
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Let the slave of Dinar and Dirham, and of Qatifah and Khamisa (i.e. money and luxurious clothes) perish, for he is pleased if these things are given to him, and if not, he is displeased."
Hadith - 102
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Let the slave of Dinar and Dirham, of Qatifah and Khamisa perish, as he is pleased if these things are given to him, and if not, he is displeased.
Let such a person perish and relapse, and if he is pierced with a thorn, let him not find anyone to take it out for him.
Paradise is for him who holds the reins of his horse to strive in Allah's Cause, with his hair unkempt and feet covered with dust: if he is appointed in the vanguard, he is perfectly satisfied with his post of guarding, and if he is appointed in the rearward, he accepts his post with satisfaction.
(He is so simple and unambiguous that) if he asks for permission he is not permitted, and if he intercedes, his intercession is not accepted."
Hadith - 103
Narrated Anas: I was in the company of Jarir bin `Abdullah on a journey, and he used to serve me though he was older than I.
Jarir said, "I saw the Ansar doing a thing (i.e. showing great reverence to the Prophet (ﷺ)) for which I have vowed that whenever I meet any of them, I will serve him."
Hadith - 104
Narrated Anas bin Malik: I went along with the Prophet (ﷺ) to Khaibar so as to serve him. (Later on) when the Prophet (ﷺ) returned, he - on seeing the Uhud mountain - said, "This is a mountain that loves us and is loved by us."
Then he pointed to Medina with his hand saying, "O Allah! I make the area which is in between Medina's two mountains a sanctuary, as Abraham made Mecca a sanctuary. O Allah! Bless us in our Sa` and Mudd (i.e. units of measuring)."
Hadith - 105
Narrated Anas: We were with the Prophet (on a journey) and the only shade one could have was the shade made by one's own garment.
Those who fasted did not do any work, and those who did not fast served the camels and brought the water on them and treated the sick and (wounded). So, the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Today, those who were not fasting took (all) the reward."
Hadith - 106
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Charity is obligatory everyday on every joint of a human being.
If one helps a person in matters concerning his riding animal by helping him to ride it or by lifting his luggage on to it, all this will be regarded as charity.
A good word, and every step one takes to offer the compulsory congregational prayer is regarded as charity; and guiding somebody on the road is regarded as charity."
Hadith - 107
Narrated Sahl bin Sa`d As-Sa'idi: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "To guard Muslims from infidels in Allah's Cause for one day is better than the world and whatever is on its surface, and a place in Paradise as small as that occupied by the whip of one of you is better than the world and whatever is on its surface; and a morning's or an evening's journey which a slave (person) travels in Allah's Cause is better than the world and whatever is on its surface."
Hadith - 108
Narrated Anas bin Malik: The Prophet (ﷺ) said to Abu Talha, "Choose one of your boy servants to serve me in my expedition to Khaibar."
So, Abu Talha took me, letting me ride behind him while I was a boy nearing the age of puberty. I used to serve Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) when he stopped to rest.
I heard him saying repeatedly, "O Allah! I seek refuge with You from distress and sorrow, from helplessness and laziness, from miserliness and cowardice, from being heavily in debt and from being overcome by men."
Then we reached Khaibar; and when Allah enabled him to conquer the Fort (of Khaibar), the beauty of Safiya bint Huyai bin Akhtab was described to him. Her husband had been killed while she was a bride.
So, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) selected her for himself and took her along with him till we reached a place called Sa`d As-Sahba,' where her menses were over and he took her for his wife.
Hays (a kind of dish) was served on a small leather sheet. Then Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) told me to call those who were around me. So, that was the marriage banquet of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and Safiya. Then we left for Medina.
I saw Allah's Apostle folding a cloak round the hump of the camel so as to make a wide space for Safiya (to sit on behind him). He sat beside his camel letting his knees for Safiya to put her feet on so as to mount the camel.
Then, we proceeded till we approached Medina; he looked at Uhud (mountain) and said, "This is a mountain which loves us and is loved by us."
Then he looked at Medina and said, "O Allah! I make the area between its (i.e. Medina's) two mountains a sanctuary as Abraham made Mecca a sanctuary. O Allah! Bless them (i.e. the people of Medina) in their Mudd and Sa (i.e. measures)."
Hadith - 109
Narrated Anas bin Malik: Um Haram told me that the Prophet (ﷺ) one day took a midday nap in her house. Then he woke up smiling. Um Haram asked, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! What makes you smile?"
He replied, "I was astonished to see (in my dream) some people amongst my followers on a sea-voyage looking like kings on the thrones." She said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Invoke Allah to make me one of them." He replied, "You are amongst them."
He slept again and then woke up smiling, and said the same as before twice or thrice. And she said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Invoke Allah to make me one of them." And he said, "You are amongst the first batch."
'Ubada bin As-Samit married her (i.e. Um Haram) and then he took her for Jihad. When she returned, an animal was presented to her to ride, but she fell down and her neck was broken.
Hadith - 110
Narrated Mus`ab bin Sa`d: Once Sa`d (bin Abi Waqqas) thought that he was superior to those who were below him in rank.
On that, the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "You gain no victory or livelihood except through (the blessings and invocations of) the poor amongst you."
Hadith - 111
Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "A time will come when groups of people will go for Jihad and it will be asked, 'Is there anyone amongst you who has enjoyed the company of the Prophet?' The answer will be, 'Yes.' Then they will be given victory (by Allah) (because of him).
Then a time will come when it will be asked, 'Is there anyone amongst you who has enjoyed the company of the companions of the Prophet?' It will be said, 'Yes,' and they will be given victory (by Allah).
Then a time will come when it will be said, 'Is there anyone amongst you who has enjoyed the company of the companions of the companions of the Prophet?' It will be said, 'Yes,' and they will be given victory (by Allah)."
Hadith - 112
Narrated Sahl bin Sa`d As-Sa`idi: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and the pagans faced each other and started fighting.
When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) returned to his camp and when the pagans returned to their camp, somebody talked about a man amongst the companions of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) who would follow and kill with his sword any pagan going alone.
He said, "Nobody did his job (i.e. fighting) so properly today as that man." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Indeed, he is amongst the people of the (Hell) Fire."
A man amongst the people said, "I shall accompany him (to watch what he does)." Thus he accompanied him, and wherever he stood, he would stand with him, and wherever he ran, he would run with him.
Then the (brave) man got wounded seriously and he decided to bring about his death quickly. He planted the blade of the sword in the ground directing its sharp end towards his chest between his two breasts. Then he leaned on the sword and killed himself.
The other man came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and said, "I testify that you are Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)." The Prophet (ﷺ) asked, "What has happened?"
He replied, "(It is about) the man whom you had described as one of the people of the (Hell) Fire. The people were greatly surprised at what you said, and I said, 'I will find out his reality for you.' So, I came out seeking him.
He got severely wounded, and hastened to die by slanting the blade of his sword in the ground directing its sharp end towards his chest between his two breasts. Then he eased on his sword and killed himself."
Then Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "A man may seem to the people as if he were practising the deeds of the people of Paradise while in fact he is from the people of the Hell Fire, another may seem to the people as if he were practicing the deeds of the people of Hell (Fire), while in fact he is from the people of Paradise."
Hadith - 113
Narrated Salama bin Al-Akwa`: The Prophet (ﷺ) passed by some people of the tribe of Bani Aslam who were practicing archery. The Prophet said, "O Bani Isma`il! Practice archery, as your father Isma`il was a great archer. Keep on throwing arrows, and I am with Bani so-and-so."
So one of the parties ceased throwing. Allah's Apostle said, "Why do you not throw?" They replied, "How should we throw while you are with them (i.e. on their side)?" On that, the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Throw, and I am with all of you."
Hadith - 114
Narrated Abu Usaid: On the day (of the battle) of Badr, when we stood in rows against (the army of) Quraish and they stood in rows against us, the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "When they do come near you, throw arrows at them."
Hadith - 115
Narrated Abu Huraira: While some Ethiopians were playing in the presence of the Prophet, `Umar came in, picked up a stone and hit them with it. On that, the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O `Umar! Allow them (to play)."
Ma`mar (the subnarrator) added that they were playing in the Mosque.
Hadith - 116
Narrated Anas bin Malik: Abu Talha and the Prophet (ﷺ) used to shield themselves with one shield. Abu Talha was a good archer, and when he threw (his arrows) the Prophet (ﷺ) would look at the target of his arrows.
Hadith - 117
Narrated Sahl: When the helmet of the Prophet (ﷺ) was smashed on his head and blood covered his face and one of his front teeth got broken, `Ali brought the water in his shield and Fatima (the Prophet's daughter) washed him.
But when she saw that the bleeding increased more by the water, she took a mat, burnt it, and placed the ashes on the wound of the Prophet (ﷺ) and so the blood stopped oozing out.
Hadith - 118
Narrated `Umar: The properties of Bani An-Nadir which Allah had transferred to His Apostle as Fai Booty, were not gained by the Muslims with their horses and camels.
The properties therefore, belonged especially to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) who used to give his family their yearly expenditure and spend what remained thereof on arms and horses to be used in Allah's Cause.
Hadith - 119
Narrated `Ali: I never saw the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "Let my parents sacrifice their lives for you," to any man after Sa`d. I heard him saying (to him), "Throw (the arrows)! Let my parents sacrifice their lives for you."
Hadith - 120
Narrated `Aisha: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) came to my house while two girls were singing beside me the songs of Bu'ath (a story about the war between the two tribes of the Ansar, i.e. Khazraj and Aus, before Islam.)
The Prophet (ﷺ) reclined on the bed and turned his face to the other side. Abu Bakr came and scolded me and said protestingly, "Instrument of Satan in the presence of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)?"
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) turned his face towards him and said, "Leave them." When Abu Bakr became inattentive, I waved the two girls to go away and they left.
It was the day of `Id when black people used to play with leather shields and spears. Either I requested Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) or he himself asked me whether I would like to see the display. I replied in the affirmative.
Then he let me stand behind him and my cheek was touching his cheek and he was saying, "Carry on, O Bani Arfida (i.e. black people)!" When I got tired, he asked me if that was enough. I replied in the affirmative and he told me to leave.
Hadith - 121
Narrated Anas: The Prophet was the best and the bravest amongst the people. Once the people of Medina got terrified at night, so they went in the direction of the noise (that terrified them).
The Prophet (ﷺ) met them (on his way back) after he had found out the truth. He was riding an unsaddled horse belonging to Abu Talha and a sword was hanging by his neck, and he was saying, "Don't be afraid! Don't be afraid!"
He further said, "I found it (i.e. the horse) very fast," or said, "This horse is very fast."
Hadith - 122
Narrated Abu Umama: Some people conquered many countries and their swords were decorated neither with gold nor silver, but they were decorated with leather, lead and iron.
Hadith - 123
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah: That he proceeded in the company of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) towards Najd to participate in a Ghazwa (Holy battle). When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) returned, he too returned with him.
Midday came upon them while they were in a valley having many thorny trees. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and the people dismounted and dispersed to rest in the shade of the trees. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) rested under a tree and hung his sword on it.
We all took a nap and suddenly we heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) calling us. (We woke up) to see a bedouin with him.
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'This bedouin took out my sword while I was sleeping and when I woke up, I found the unsheathed sword in his hand and he challenged me saying, "Who will save you from me?" I said thrice, "Allah."' The Prophet (ﷺ) did not punish him but sat down.
Hadith - 124
Narrated Sahl: That he was asked about the wound of the Prophet (ﷺ) on the day (of the battle) of Uhud. He said, "The face of the Prophet (ﷺ) was wounded and one of his front teeth was broken and the helmet over his head was smashed.
Fatima washed off the blood while `Ali held water. When she saw that the bleeding was increasing continuously, she burnt a mat (of date-palm leaves) till it turned into ashes which she put over the wound and thus the bleeding ceased."
Hadith - 125
Narrated `Amr bin Al-Harith: The Prophet (ﷺ) did not leave behind him after his death, anything except his arms, his white mule, and a piece of land at Khaibar which he left to be given in charity.
Hadith - 126
Narrated Jabir: as above.
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah: That he participated in a Ghazwa (Holy-Battle) in the company of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). Midday came upon them while they were in a valley having many thorny trees. The people dispersed to rest in the shade of the trees.
The Prophet (ﷺ) rested under a tree, hung his sword on it, and then slept. Then he woke up to find near to him a man whose presence he had not noticed before.
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "This (man) took my sword (out of its scabbard) and said, 'Who will save you from me?' I replied, "Allah." So, he put the sword back into its scabbard, and you see him sitting here." Anyhow, the Prophet (ﷺ) did not punish him.
Hadith - 127
Narrated Abu Qatada: That he was in the company of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and when they had covered a portion of the road to Mecca, he and some of the companions lagged behind. The latter were in a state of Ihram, while he was not.
He saw an onager and rode his horse and requested his companions to give him his lash but they refused. Then he asked them to give him his spear but they refused, so he took it himself, attacked the onager, and killed it.
Some of the companions of the Prophet (ﷺ) ate of it, while some others refused to eat. When they caught up with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) they asked him about that, and he said, "That was a meal Allah fed you with."
It is also said that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) asked, "Have you got something of its meat?"
Hadith - 128
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: The Prophet (ﷺ), while in a tent (on the day of the battle of Badr) said, "O Allah! I ask you the fulfillment of Your Covenant and Promise. O Allah! If You wish (to destroy the believers) You will never be worshipped after today."
Abu Bakr caught him by the hand and said, "This is sufficient, O Allah's Apostle! You have asked Allah pressingly." The Prophet (ﷺ) was clad in his armor at that time.
He went out, saying to me: "Their multitude will be put to flight and they will show their backs. Nay, but the Hour is their appointed time (for their full recompense) and that Hour will be more grievous and more bitter (than their worldly failure)." (Surah 54: Ayat 45-46)
Khalid said that was on the day of the battle of Badr.
Hadith - 129
Narrated `Aisha: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) died while his (iron) armor was mortgaged to a Jew for thirty Sas of barley.
Hadith - 130
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The example of a miser and the one who gives in charity, is like the example of two men wearing iron cloaks so tightly that their arms are raised forcibly towards their collar-bones.
So, whenever a charitable person wants to give in charity, his cloak spreads over his body so-much-so that it wipes out his traces, but whenever the miser wants to give in charity, the rings (of the iron cloak) come closer to each other and press over his body, and his hands get connected to his collarbones."
Abu Huraira heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "The miser then tries to widen it but in vain."
Hadith - 131
Narrated Al-Mughira bin Shu`ba: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) went out to answer the call of nature, and on his return I brought some water to him. He performed the ablution while he was wearing a Sha'mi cloak.
He rinsed his mouth and washed his nose by putting water in it and then blowing it out, and washed his face.
Then he tried to take out his hands through his sleeves but they were tight, so he took them out from underneath, washed them and passed wet hands over his head and over his leather socks.
Hadith - 132
Narrated Anas: The Prophet (ﷺ) allowed `Abdur-Rahman bin `Auf and Az-Zubair to wear silken shirts, because they had a skin disease causing itching.
Hadith - 133
Narrated Anas: As above.
Narrated Anas: `Abdur Rahman bin `Auf and Az-Zubair complained to the Prophet, i.e. about the lice (that caused itching) so he allowed them to wear silken clothes. I saw them wearing such clothes in a holy battle.
Hadith - 134
Narrated Anas: The Prophet (ﷺ) allowed `Abdur-Rahman bin `Auf and Az-Zubair bin Al-`Awwam to wear silk.
Hadith - 135
Narrated Anas: (Wearing of silk) was allowed to them (i.e. `Abdur-Rahman and Az-Zubair) because of the itching they suffered from.
Hadith - 136
Narrated Umaiya Ad-Damri: I saw the Prophet (ﷺ) eating of a shoulder (of a sheep) by cutting from it, and then he was called to prayer and he prayed without repeating his ablution.
Narrated Az-Zuhri: as above, and added that the Prophet (ﷺ) put the knife down.