Hadith - 211
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar: `Umar bin Al-Khattab gave a horse to be ridden in Allah's Cause and then he found it being sold. He intended to purchase it. So, he consulted Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) who said, "Don't buy it, and don't take back your gift of charity."
Hadith - 212
Narrated Aslam: I heard `Umar bin Al-Khattab saying, 'I gave a horse to be ridden in Allah's Cause and the person who got it intended to sell it or neglected it. So, I wanted to buy it as I thought he would sell it cheap.
I consulted the Prophet (ﷺ) who said, "Do not buy it even if for one Dirham, because he who takes back his gift is like a dog swallowing its vomit."'
Hadith - 213
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Amr: A man came to the Prophet (ﷺ) asking his permission to take part in Jihad. The Prophet (ﷺ) asked him, "Are your parents alive?" He replied in the affirmative. The Prophet (ﷺ) said to him, "Then exert yourself in their service."
Hadith - 214
Narrated Abu Bashir Al-Ansari: That he was in the company of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) on some of his journeys. (The sub-narrator `Abdullah adds, "I think that Abu Bashir also said, 'And the people were at their sleeping places.'")
Allah's Apostle sent a messenger ordering: "There shall not remain any necklace of string or any other kind of necklace round the necks of camels except it is cut off."
Hadith - 215
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: That he heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "It is not permissible for a man to be alone with a woman, and no lady should travel except with a Mahram (i.e. her husband or a person whom she cannot marry in any case for ever: e.g. her father, brother, etc)."
Then a man got up and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! I have enlisted in the army for such-and-such Ghazwa and my wife is proceeding for Hajj." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Go, and perform the Hajj with your wife."
Hadith - 216
Narrated 'Ubaidullah bin Abi Rafi`: I heard `Ali saying, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) sent me, Az-Zubair and Al-Miqdad somewhere saying, 'Proceed till you reach Rawdat Khakh. There you will find a lady with a letter. Take the letter from her.'"
So, we set out and our horses ran at full pace till we got at Ar-Rawda where we found the lady and said (to her), "Take out the letter." She replied, "I have no letter with me."
We said, "Either you take out the letter or else we will take off your clothes." So, she took it out of her braid.
We brought the letter to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and it contained a statement from Hatib bin Abi Balta'a to some of the Meccan pagans informing them of some of the intentions of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ).
Then Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "O Hatib! What is this?" Hatib replied, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Don't hasten to give your judgment about me.
I was a man closely connected with the Quraish, but I did not belong to this tribe, while the other emigrants with you had their relatives in Mecca who would protect their dependents and property.
So, I wanted to recompense for my lacking blood relation to them by doing them a favor so that they might protect my dependents. I did this neither because of disbelief nor apostasy nor out of preferring Kufr (disbelief) to Islam."
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Hatib has told you the truth." `Umar said, O Allah's Apostle! Allow me to chop off the head of this hypocrite."
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Hatib participated in the battle of Badr, and who knows, perhaps Allah has already looked at the Badr warriors and said, 'Do whatever you like, for I have forgiven you.'"
Hadith - 217
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah: When it was the day (of the battle) of Badr, prisoners of war were brought including Al-Abbas who was undressed. The Prophet (ﷺ) looked for a shirt for him.
It was found that the shirt of `Abdullah bin Ubai would do, so the Prophet (ﷺ) let him wear it. That was the reason why the Prophet (ﷺ) took off and gave his own shirt to `Abdullah.
(The narrator adds, "He had done the Prophet (ﷺ) some favor for which the Prophet liked to reward him.")
Hadith - 218
Narrated Sahl: On the day (of the battle) of Khaibar, the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Tomorrow I will give the flag to somebody who will be given victory (by Allah) and who loves Allah and His Apostle and is loved by Allah and His Apostle."
So, the people wondered all that night as to who would receive the flag, and in the morning everyone hoped that he would be that person. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) asked, "Where is `Ali?"
He was told that `Ali was suffering from eye-trouble, so he applied saliva to his eyes and invoked Allah to cure him. He at once got cured as if he had no ailment. The Prophet (ﷺ) gave him the flag. `Ali said, "Should I fight them till they become like us (i.e. Muslim)?"
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Go to them patiently and calmly till you enter the land. Then, invite them to Islam, and inform them what is enjoined upon them, for, by Allah, if Allah gives guidance to somebody through you, it is better for you than possessing red camels."
Hadith - 219
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Allah wonders at those people who will enter Paradise in chains."
Hadith - 220
Narrated Abu Burda's father: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Three persons will get their reward twice. (One is) a person who has a slave girl and he educates her properly and teaches her good manners properly (without violence) and then manumits and marries her. Such a person will get a double reward.
(Another is) a believer from the people of the scriptures who has been a true believer and then he believes in the Prophet (ﷺ) (Muhammad). Such a person will get a double reward.
(The third is) a slave who observes Allah's Rights and Obligations and is sincere to his master."
Hadith - 221
Narrated As-Sa'b bin Jaththama: The Prophet (ﷺ) passed by me at a place called Al-Abwa or Waddan, and was asked whether it was permissible to attack the pagan warriors at night with the probability of exposing their women and children to danger.
The Prophet (ﷺ) replied, "They (i.e. women and children) are from them (i.e. pagans)." I also heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "The institution of Hima is invalid except for Allah and His Apostle."
Hadith - 222
As above (hadith).
Hadith - 223
Narrated `Abdullah: During some of the Ghazawat of the Prophet (ﷺ) a woman was found killed. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) disapproved the killing of women and children.
Hadith - 224
Narrated Ibn `Umar: During some of the Ghazawat of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) a woman was found killed, so Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade the killing of women and children.
Hadith - 225
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) sent us in a mission (i.e., an army-unit) and said, "If you find so-and-so and so-and-so, burn both of them with fire."
When we intended to depart, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "I have ordered you to burn so-and-so and so-and-so, and it is none but Allah Who punishes with fire, so, if you find them, kill them (i.e., don't burn them)."
Hadith - 226
Narrated `Ikrima: `Ali burnt some people and this news reached Ibn `Abbas, who said, "Had I been in his place, I would not have burnt them, as the Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'Don't punish (anybody) with Allah's Punishment.'
No doubt, I would have killed them, for the Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'If somebody (a Muslim) discards his religion, kill him.'"
Hadith - 227
Narrated Anas bin Malik: A group of eight men from the tribe of 'Ukl came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and then they found the climate of Medina unsuitable for them. So, they said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Provide us with some milk."
Allah's Apostle said, "I recommend that you should join the herd of camels." So they went and drank the urine and the milk of the camels (as a medicine) till they became healthy and fat.
Then they killed the shepherd and drove away the camels, and they became unbelievers after they were Muslims. When the Prophet (ﷺ) was informed by a shouter for help, he sent some men in their pursuit, and before the sun rose high, they were brought, and he had their hands and feet cut off.
Then he ordered for nails which were heated and passed over their eyes, and they were left in the Harra (i.e. rocky land in Medina). They asked for water, and nobody provided them with water till they died.
(Abu Qilaba, a sub-narrator said, "They committed murder and theft and fought against Allah and His Apostle, and spread evil in the land").
Hadith - 228
Narrated Abu Hurairah: I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "An ant bit a Prophet amongst the Prophets, and he ordered that the place of the ants be burnt.
So, Allah inspired to him, 'It is because one ant bit you that you burnt a nation amongst the nations that glorify Allah?'"
Hadith - 229
Narrated Jarir: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said to me, "Will you relieve me from Dhul-Khalasa?" Dhul-Khalasa was a house (of an idol) belonging to the tribe of Khath'am called Al-Ka`ba Al-Yama-niya. So, I proceeded with one hundred and fifty cavalry men from the tribe of Ahmas, who were excellent knights.
It happened that I could not sit firm on horses, so the Prophet (ﷺ) stroke me over my chest till I saw his finger-marks over my chest, he said, 'O Allah! Make him firm and make him a guiding and rightly guided man.'"
Jarir proceeded towards that house, and dismantled and burnt it. Then he sent a messenger to Allah's Apostle informing him of that.
Jarir's messenger said, "By Him Who has sent you with the Truth, I did not come to you till I had left it like an emancipated or gabby camel (i.e. completely marred and spoilt)."
Jarir added, "The Prophet (ﷺ) asked for Allah's Blessings for the horses and the men of Ahmas five times."
Hadith - 230
Narrated Ibn `Umar: The Prophet (ﷺ) burnt the date-palms of Bani An-Nadir.
Hadith - 231
Narrated Al-Bara bin Azib: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) sent a group of Ansari men to kill Abu Rafi`. One of them set out and entered their (i.e. the enemies) fort.
That man said, "I hid myself in a stable for their animals. They closed the fort gate. Later they lost a donkey of theirs, so they went out in its search. I, too, went out along with them, pretending to look for it.
They found the donkey and entered their fort. And I, too, entered along with them. They closed the gate of the fort at night, and kept its keys in a small window where I could see them.
When those people slept, I took the keys and opened the gate of the fort and came upon Abu Rafi` and said, 'O Abu Rafi`.' When he replied me, I proceeded towards the voice and hit him.
He shouted and I came out to come back, pretending to be a helper. I said, 'O Abu Rafi`, changing the tone of my voice. He asked me, 'What do you want, woe to your mother?' I asked him, 'What has happened to you?' He said, 'I don't know who came to me and hit me.'
Then I drove my sword into his belly and pushed it forcibly till it touched the bone. Then I came out, filled with puzzlement and went towards a ladder of theirs in order to get down but I fell down and sprained my foot.
I came to my companions and said, 'I will not leave till I hear the wailing of the women.' So, I did not leave till I heard the women bewailing Abu Rafi`, the merchant of Hijaz.
Then I got up, feeling no ailment, (and we proceeded) till we came upon the Prophet (ﷺ) and informed him.
Hadith - 232
Narrated Al-Bara bin Azib: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) sent a group of the Ansar to Abu Rafi`. `Abdullah bin Atik entered his house at night and killed him while he was sleeping.
Hadith - 233
Narrated Salim Abu An-Nadr (the freed slave of 'Umar bin 'Ubaidullah): I was Umar's clerk. Once Abdullah bin Abi Aufa wrote a letter to 'Umar when he proceeded to Al-Haruriya.
I read in it that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) in one of his military expeditions against the enemy, waited till the sun declined and then he got up amongst the people saying, "O people! Do not wish to meet the enemy, and ask Allah for safety, but when you face the enemy, be patient, and remember that Paradise is under the shades of swords."
Then he said, "O Allah, the Revealer of the Holy Book, and the Mover of the clouds and the Defeater of the clans, defeat them, and grant us victory over them."
Hadith - 234
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: "Do not wish to meet the enemy, but when you meet (face) the enemy, be patient."
Hadith - 235
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Khosrau will be ruined, and there will be no Khosrau after him, and Caesar will surely be ruined and there will be no Caesar after him, and you will spend their treasures in Allah's Cause." He called, "War is deceit."
Hadith - 236
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) called: "War is deceit."
Hadith - 237
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "War is deceit."
Hadith - 238
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Who is ready to kill Ka`b bin Al-Ashraf who has really hurt Allah and His Apostle?" Muhammad bin Maslama said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Do you like me to kill him?" He replied in the affirmative.
So, Muhammad bin Maslama went to him (i.e. Ka`b) and said, "This person (i.e. the Prophet) has put us to task and asked us for charity." Ka`b replied, "By Allah, you will get tired of him."
Muhammad said to him, "We have followed him, so we dislike to leave him till we see the end of his affair." Muhammad bin Maslama went on talking to him in this way till he got the chance to kill him.
Hadith - 239
Narrated Jabir: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Who is ready to kill Ka`b bin Ashraf (i.e. a Jew)." Muhammad bin Maslama replied, "Do you like me to kill him?" The Prophet (ﷺ) replied in the affirmative.
Muhammad bin Maslama said, "Then allow me to say what I like." The Prophet (ﷺ) replied, "I do (i.e. allow you)."
Hadith - 240
Narrated 'Abdullah bin Umar: Once, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) accompanied by Ubai bin Ka'b set out to Ibn Saiyyad. He was informed that Ibn Saiyyad was in a garden of date palms.
When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) entered the garden of date-palms, he started hiding himself behind the trunks of the palms while Ibn Saiyyad was covered with a velvet sheet with murmurs emanating from under it.
Ibn Saiyyad's mother saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and said, "O Saf! This is Muhammad." So Ibn Saiyyad got up. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If she had left him (in his state), the truth would have been clear."
Hadith - 241
Narrated Al-Bara: I saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) on the day (of the battle) of the Trench carrying earth till the hair of his chest were covered with dust and he was a hairy man.
He was reciting the following verses of `Abdullah (bin Rawaha): "O Allah, were it not for You, we would not have been guided, nor would we have given in charity, nor prayed.
So, bestow on us calmness, and when we meet the enemy then make our feet firm, for indeed, yet if they want to put us in affliction, (i.e. want to fight against us) we would not (flee but withstand them)."
The Prophet (ﷺ) used to raise his voice while reciting these verses.
Hadith - 242
Narrated Jarir: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) did not screen himself from me since my embracing Islam, and whenever he saw me he would receive me with a smile.
Once I told him that I could not sit firm on horses. He stroke me on the chest with his hand and said, "O Allah! Make him firm, and make him a guiding and a rightly guided man."
Hadith - 243
Narrated Abu Hazim: The people asked Sahl bin Sa`d As-Sa'idi, "With what thing (medicine) was the wound of Allah's Apostle treated?" He replied, "There is none left (living) amongst the people who knows it better than.
`Ali used to bring water in his shield and Fatima (i.e. the Prophet's daughter) used to wash the blood off his face. Then a mat (of palm leaves) was burnt and its ash was inserted in the wound of Allah's Apostle."
Hadith - 244
Narrated Abu Burda: That his father said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) sent Mu`adh and Abu Musa to Yemen telling them, 'Treat the people with ease and don't be hard on them; give them glad tidings and don't fill them with aversion; and love each other, and don't differ.'"
Hadith - 245
Narrated Al-Bara bin Azib: The Prophet (ﷺ) appointed `Abdullah bin Jubair as the commander of the infantry men (archers) who were fifty on the day (of the battle) of Uhud.
He instructed them, "Stick to your place, and don't leave it even if you see birds snatching us, till I send for you; and if you see that we have defeated the infidels and made them flee, even then you should not leave your place till I send for you."
Then the infidels were defeated. By Allah, I saw the women fleeing lifting up their clothes revealing their leg-bangles and their legs.
So, the companions of `Abdullah bin Jubair said, "The booty! O people, the booty! Your companions have become victorious, what are you waiting for now?"
`Abdullah bin Jubair said, "Have you forgotten what Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said to you?" They replied, "By Allah! We will go to the people (i.e. the enemy) and collect our share from the war booty." But when they went to them, they were forced to turn back defeated.
At that time, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) in their rear was calling them back. Only twelve men remained with the Prophet (ﷺ) and the infidels martyred seventy men from us.
On the day (of the battle) of Badr, the Prophet (ﷺ) and his companions had caused the pagans to lose 140 men, seventy of whom were captured and seventy were killed.
Then Abu Sufyan asked thrice, "Is Muhammad present amongst these people?" The Prophet (ﷺ) ordered his companions not to answer him.
Then he asked thrice, "Is the son of Abu Quhafa present amongst these people?" He asked again thrice, "Is the son of Al-Khattab present amongst these people?" He then returned to his companions and said, "As for these (men), they have been killed."
`Umar could not control himself and said (to Abu Sufyan), "You told a lie, by Allah! O enemy of Allah! All those you have mentioned are alive, and the thing which will make you unhappy is still there."
Abu Sufyan said, "Our victory today is a counterbalance to yours in the battle of Badr, and in war (the victory) is always undecided and is shared in turns by the belligerents, and you will find some of your (killed) men mutilated, but I did not urge my men to do so, yet I do not feel sorry for their deed."
After that, he started reciting cheerfully, "O Hubal, be high!" On that, the Prophet (ﷺ) said (to his companions), "Why don't you answer him back?" They said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) What shall we say?" He said, "Say, Allah is Higher and more Sublime."
(Then) Abu Sufyan said, "We have the (idol) Al-`Uzza, and you have no `Uzza." The Prophet said (to his companions), "Why don't you answer him back?" They asked, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! What shall we say?" He said, "Say: Allah is our Helper and you have no helper."
Hadith - 246
Narrated Anas: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was the (most handsome), most generous and the bravest of all the people.
Once the people of Medina got frightened having heard an uproar at night. So, the Prophet (ﷺ) met the people while he was riding an unsaddled horse belonging to Abu Talha and carrying his sword (slung over his shoulder).
He said (to them), "Don't get scared, don't get scared." Then he added, "I found it (i.e. the horse) very fast."
Hadith - 247
Narrated Salama: I went out of Medina towards Al-Ghaba. When I reached the mountain path of Al-Ghaba, a slave of `Abdur-Rahman bin `Auf met me.
I said to him, "Woe to you! What brought you here?" He replied, "The she-camels of the Prophet (ﷺ) have been taken away." I said, "Who took them?" He said, "Ghatafan and Fazara."
So, I sent three cries, "O Sabahah! O Sabahah!" so loudly that made the people in between its (i.e. Medina's) two mountains hear me. Then I rushed till I met them after they had taken the camels away.
I started throwing arrows at them saying, "I am the son of Al-Akwa`, and today perish the mean people!" So, I saved the she-camels from them before they (i.e. the robbers) could drink water.
When I returned driving the camels, the Prophet (ﷺ) met me. I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Those people are thirsty and I have prevented them from drinking water, so send some people to chase them."
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O son of Al-Akwa`, you have gained power (over your enemy), so forgive (them). (Besides) those people are now being entertained by their folk."
Hadith - 248
Narrated Abu 'Is-haq: A man asked Al-Bara, "O Abu `Umara! Did you flee on the day (of the battle) of Hunain?" Al-Bara replied while I was listening, "As for Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) he did not flee on that day.
Abu Sufyan bin Al-Harith was holding the reins of his mule and when the pagans attacked him, he dismounted and started saying, 'I am the Prophet, and there is no lie about it; I am the son of `Abdul Muttalib.' On that day, nobody was seen braver than the Prophet."
Hadith - 249
Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri: When the tribe of Bani Quraiza was ready to accept Sa`d's judgment, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) sent for Sa`d who was near to him.
Sa`d came, riding a donkey and when he came near, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said (to the Ansar), "Stand up for your leader." Then Sa`d came and sat beside Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) who said to him, "These people are ready to accept your judgment."
Sa`d said, "I give the judgment that their warriors should be killed and their children and women should be taken as prisoners." The Prophet (ﷺ) then remarked, "O Sa`d! You have judged amongst them with (or similar to) the judgment of the King Allah."
Hadith - 250
Narrated Anas bin Malik: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) entered (Makkah) in the year of the Conquest (of Makkah) wearing a helmet over his head. After he took it off, a man came and said, "Ibn Khatal is clinging to the curtains of the Ka'bah." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Kill him."
Hadith - 251
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) sent a Sariya of ten men as spies under the leadership of `Asim bin Thabit al-Ansari, the grandfather of `Asim bin `Umar bin Al-Khattab.
They proceeded till they reached Hadaa, a place between 'Usfan and Mecca, and their news reached a branch of the tribe of Hudhail called Bani Lihyan.
About two-hundred men, who were all archers, hurried to follow their tracks till they found the place where they had eaten dates they had brought with them from Medina. They said, "These are the dates of Yathrib (i.e. Medina)," and continued following their tracks.
When `Asim and his companions saw their pursuers, they went up a high place and the infidels circled them. The infidels said to them, "Come down and surrender, and we promise and guarantee you that we will not kill any one of you."
`Asim bin Thabit, the leader of the Sariya said, "By Allah! I will not come down to be under the protection of infidels. O Allah! Convey our news to Your Prophet."
Then the infidels threw arrows at them till they martyred `Asim along with six other men, and three men came down accepting their promise and convention, and they were Khubaib al-Ansari and Ibn Dathina and another man.
So, when the infidels captured them, they undid the strings of their bows and tied them. Then the third (of the captives) said, "This is the first betrayal. By Allah! I will not go with you. No doubt these, namely the martyred, have set a good example to us."
So, they dragged him and tried to compel him to accompany them, but as he refused, they killed him. They took Khubaib and Ibn Dathina with them and sold them (as slaves) in Mecca (and all that took place) after the battle of Badr.
Khubaib was bought by the sons of Al-Harith bin 'Amir bin Naufal bin `Abd Manaf. It was Khubaib who had killed Al-Harith bin 'Amir on the day (of the battle of) Badr. So, Khubaib remained a prisoner with those people.
Narrated Az-Zuhri: 'Ubaidullah bin 'Iyyad said that the daughter of Al-Harith had told him, "When those people gathered (to kill Khubaib) he borrowed a razor from me to shave his pubic hair and I gave it to him.
Then he took a son of mine while I was unaware when he came upon him. I saw him placing my son on his thigh and the razor was in his hand. I got scared so much that Khubaib noticed the agitation on my face and said, 'Are you afraid that I will kill him? No, I will never do so.'
By Allah, I never saw a prisoner better than Khubaib. By Allah, one day I saw him eating of a bunch of grapes in his hand while he was chained in irons, and there was no fruit at that time in Mecca." The daughter of Al-Harith used to say, "It was a boon Allah bestowed upon Khubaib."
When they took him out of the Sanctuary (of Mecca) to kill him outside its boundaries, Khubaib requested them to let him offer two rak`at (prayer).
They allowed him and he offered two rak`at and then said, "Hadn't I been afraid that you would think that I was afraid (of being killed), I would have prolonged the prayer. O Allah, kill them all with no exception."
(He then recited the poetic verse): "I being martyred as a Muslim, do not mind how I am killed in Allah's Cause, for my killing is for Allah's Sake, and if Allah wishes, He will bless the amputated parts of a torn body." Then the son of Al-Harith killed him.
So, it was Khubaib who set the tradition for any Muslim sentenced to death in captivity, to offer a two rak`at prayer (before being killed).
Allah fulfilled the invocation of `Asim bin Thabit on that very day on which he was martyred. The Prophet (ﷺ) informed his companions of their news and what had happened to them.
Later on, when some infidels from Quraish were informed that `Asim had been killed, they sent some people to fetch a part of his body (i.e. his head) by which he would be recognized.
(That was because) `Asim had killed one of their chiefs on the day (of the battle) of Badr. So, a swarm of wasps, resembling a shady cloud, were sent to hover over `Asim and protect him from their messenger and thus they could not cut off anything from his flesh.