Hadith - 252
Narrated Abu Musa: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Free the captives, feed the hungry and pay a visit to the sick."
Hadith - 253
Narrated Abu Juhaifa: I asked `Ali, "Do you have the knowledge of any Divine Inspiration besides what is in Allah's Book?" `Ali replied, "No, by Him Who splits the grain of corn and creates the soul.
I don't think we have such knowledge, but we have the ability of understanding which Allah may endow a person with, so that he may understand the Qur'an, and we have what is written in this paper as well." I asked, "What is written in this paper?"
He replied, "(The regulations of) blood-money, the freeing of captives, and the judgment that no Muslim should be killed for killing an infidel."
Hadith - 254
Narrated Anas bin Malik: Some Ansari men asked permission from Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Allow us not to take the ransom of our nephew Al-`Abbas." The Prophet (ﷺ) replied, "Do not leave a single Dirham thereof."
Hadith - 255
(In another narration) Anas said: "Some wealth was brought to the Prophet (ﷺ) from Bahrain. Al-`Abbas came to him and said, 'O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Give me (some of it), as I have paid my and `Aqil's ransom.' The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'Take,' and gave him in his garment.
Hadith - 256
Narrated Jubair (who was among the captives of the Battle of Badr): I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) reciting Surat at-Tur in the Maghrib prayer.
Hadith - 257
Narrated Salama bin Al-Akwa`: "An infidel spy came to the Prophet (ﷺ) while he was on a journey. The spy sat with the companions of the Prophet (ﷺ) and started talking and then went away. The Prophet (ﷺ) said (to his companions), 'Chase and kill him.' So, I killed him."
The Prophet (ﷺ) then gave him the belongings of the killed spy (in addition to his share of the war booty).
Hadith - 258
Narrated `Amr bin Maimun: `Umar (after he was stabbed), instructed (his would-be-successor) saying, "I urge him (i.e. the new Caliph) to take care of those non-Muslims who are under the protection of Allah and His Apostle in that he should observe the convention agreed upon with them, and fight on their behalf (to secure their safety) and he should not over-tax them beyond their capability."
Hadith - 259
Narrated Sa`id bin Jubair: Ibn `Abbas said, "Thursday! What (great thing) took place on Thursday!" Then he started weeping till his tears wetted the gravels of the ground.
Then he said, "On Thursday, the illness of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was aggravated and he said, "Fetch me writing materials so that I may have something written to you after which you will never go astray."
The people (present there) differed in this matter and people should not differ before a prophet. They said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) is seriously sick."
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Let me alone, as the state in which I am now, is better than what you are calling me for."
The Prophet (ﷺ) on his death-bed, gave three orders saying, "Expel the pagans from the Arabian Peninsula, respect and give gifts to the foreign delegates as you have seen me dealing with them." I forgot the third (order)."
(Ya'qub bin Muhammad said, "I asked Al-Mughira bin `Abdur-Rahman about the Arabian Peninsula and he said, 'It comprises Mecca, Medina, Al-Yama-ma and Yemen.' Ya'qub added, "And Al-Arj, the beginning of Tihama").
Hadith - 260
Narrated Ibn `Umar: `Umar saw a silken cloak being sold in the market and he brought it to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Buy this cloak and adorn yourself with it on the `Id festivals and on meeting the delegations."
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) replied, "This is the dress for the one who will have no share in the Hereafter (or, this is worn by one who will have no share in the Hereafter)."
After sometime had passed, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) sent a silken cloak to `Umar. `Umar took it and brought it to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! You have said that this is the dress of that who will have no share in the Hereafter (or, this is worn by one who will have no share in the Hereafter), yet you have sent me this!"
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I have sent it so that you may sell it or fulfill with it some of your needs."
Hadith - 261
Narrated Ibn 'Umar: Umar and a group of the companions of the Prophet (ﷺ) set out with the Prophet to Ibn Saiyad. He found him playing with some boys near the hillocks of Bani Maghala. Ibn Saiyad at that time was nearing his puberty.
He did not notice (the Prophet's presence) till the Prophet (ﷺ) stroked him on the back with his hand and said, "Ibn Saiyad! Do you testify that I am Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)?" Ibn Saiyad looked at him and said, "I testify that you are the Apostle of the illiterates."
Then Ibn Saiyad asked the Prophet, "Do you testify that I am the apostle of Allah?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said to him, "I believe in Allah and His Apostles."
Then the Prophet (ﷺ) said (to Ibn Saiyad), "What do you see?" Ibn Saiyad replied, "True people and false ones visit me." The Prophet said, "Your mind is confused as to this matter."
The Prophet (ﷺ) added, "I have kept something (in my mind) for you." Ibn Saiyad said, "It is Ad-Dukh." The Prophet (ﷺ) said (to him), "Shame be on you! You cannot cross your limits."
On that, 'Umar said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Allow me to chop his head off." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If he should be him (i.e. Ad-Dajjal) then you cannot overpower him, and should he not be him, then you are not going to benefit by murdering him."
Hadith - 262
Narrated Ibn Umar: (Later on) Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (once again) went along with Ubai bin Ka'b to the garden of date-palms where Ibn Saiyad was staying.
When the Prophet entered the garden, he started hiding himself behind the trunks of the date-palms as he wanted to hear something from Ibn Saiyad before the latter could see him.
Ibn Saiyad was lying in his bed, covered with a velvet sheet from where his murmurs were heard.
Ibn Saiyad's mother saw the Prophet (ﷺ) while he was hiding himself behind the trunks of the date-palms. She addressed Ibn Saiyad, "O Saf!" (And this was his name). Ibn Saiyad got up.
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Had this woman let him to himself, he would have revealed the reality of his case."
Then the Prophet (ﷺ) got up amongst the people, glorifying Allah as He deserves, he mentioned Ad-Dajjal, saying, "I warn you about him (i.e. Ad-Dajjal) and there is no prophet who did not warn his nation about him, and Noah warned his nation about him, but I tell you a statement which no prophet informed his nation of. You should understand that he is a one-eyed man and Allah is not one-eyed."
Hadith - 263
Narrated Usama bin Zaid: I asked the Prophet (ﷺ) during his Hajj, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Where will you stay tomorrow?" He said, "Has `Aqil left for us any house?"
He then added, "Tomorrow we will stay at Khaif Bani Kinana, i.e. Al-Muhassab, where (the pagans of) Quraish took an oath of Kufr (i.e. to be loyal to heathenism) in that Bani Kinana got allied with Quraish against Bani Hashim on the terms that they would not deal with the members of this tribe or give them shelter." (Az-Zuhri said, "Khaif means valley.")
Hadith - 264
Narrated Aslam: `Umar bin Al-Khattab appointed a freed slave of his, called Hunai, manager of the Hima (i.e. a pasture devoted for grazing the animals of the Zakat or other specified animals).
He said to him, "O Hunai! Don't oppress the Muslims and ward off their curse (invocations against you) for the invocation of the oppressed is responded to (by Allah); and allow the shepherd having a few camels and those having a few sheep (to graze their animals), and take care not to allow the livestock of `Abdur-Rahman bin `Auf and the livestock of (`Uthman) bin `Affan, for if their livestock should perish, then they have their farms and gardens, while those who own a few camels and those who own a few sheep, if their livestock should perish, would bring their dependents to me and appeal for help saying, 'O chief of the believers! O chief of the believers!'
Would I then neglect them? (No, of course not). So, I find it easier to let them have water and grass rather than to give them gold and silver (from the Muslims' treasury).
By Allah, these people think that I have been unjust to them. This is their land, and during the pre-Islamic period, they fought for it and they embraced Islam (willingly) while it was in their possession.
By Him in Whose Hand my life is! Were it not for the animals (in my custody) which I give to be ridden for striving in Allah's Cause, I would not have turned even a span of their land into a Hima."
Hadith - 265
Narrated Hudhaifa: The Prophet (ﷺ) said (to us), "List the names of those people who have announced that they are Muslims." So, we listed one thousand and five hundred men.
Then we wondered, "Should we be afraid (of infidels) although we are one thousand and five hundred in number?" No doubt, we witnessed ourselves being afflicted with such bad trials that one would have to offer the prayer alone in fear.
Narrated Al-A`mash: "We (listed the Muslims and) found them five hundred." And Abu Muawiya said, "Between six hundred to seven hundred."
Hadith - 266
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: A man came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! I have enlisted in the army for such-and-such Ghazwa, and my wife is leaving for Hajj." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Go back and perform Hajj with your wife."
Hadith - 267
Narrated Az-Zuhri: as follows. Narrated Abu Huraira: We were in the company of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) in a Ghazwa, and he remarked about a man who claimed to be a Muslim, saying, "This (man) is from the people of the (Hell) Fire."
When the battle started, the man fought violently till he got wounded. Somebody said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! The man whom you described as being from the people of the (Hell) Fire fought violently today, and died."
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "He will go to the (Hell) Fire." Some people were on the point of doubting (the truth of what the Prophet had said) while they were in this state, suddenly someone said that he was still alive but severely wounded.
When night fell, he lost patience and committed suicide. The Prophet (ﷺ) was informed of that, and he said, "Allah is Greater! I testify that I am Allah's Slave and His Apostle."
Then he ordered Bilal to announce amongst the people: "None will enter Paradise but a Muslim, and Allah may support this religion (i.e. Islam) even with a disobedient man."
Hadith - 268
Narrated Anas bin Malik: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) delivered a sermon and said, "Zaid received the flag and was martyred, then Ja`far took it and was martyred, then `Abdullah bin Rawaha took it and was martyred, and then Khalid bin Al-Walid took it without being appointed, and Allah gave him victory."
The Prophet (ﷺ) added, "I am not pleased (or they will not be pleased) that they should remain (alive) with us," while his eyes were shedding tears.
Hadith - 269
Narrated Anas: The people of the tribes of Ri'l, Dhakwan, 'Usaiya and Bani Lihyan came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and claimed that they had embraced Islam, and they requested him to support them with some men to fight their own people.
The Prophet (ﷺ) supported them with seventy men from the Ansar whom we used to call Al-Qurra' (i.e. Scholars) who (out of piety) used to cut wood during the day and pray all the night.
So, those people took the (seventy) men till they reached a place called Bi'r-Ma'una where they betrayed and martyred them. So, the Prophet (ﷺ) invoked evil on the tribe of Ri'l, Dhakwan and Bani Lihyan for one month in the prayer.
Narrated Qatada: Anas told us that they (i.e. Muslims) used to recite a Quranic Verse concerning those martyrs which was: "O Allah! Let our people be informed on our behalf that we have met our Lord Who has got pleased with us and made us pleased." Then the Verse was cancelled.
Hadith - 270
Narrated Abu Talha: Whenever the Prophet (ﷺ) conquered some people, he would stay in their town for three days.
Hadith - 271
Narrated Anas: The Prophet (ﷺ) performed `Umra, setting out from Al-Ji'rana where he distributed the war booty of Hunain.
Hadith - 272
Narrated Nafi': A horse of Ibn 'Umar fled and the enemy took it. Then the Muslims conquered the enemy and the horse was returned to him during the lifetime of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ).
And also, once a slave of Ibn 'Umar fled and joined the Byzantines, and when the Muslims conquered them, Khalid bin Al-Walid returned the slave to him after the death of the Prophet (ﷺ).
Hadith - 273
Narrated Nafi`: Once a slave of Ibn `Umar fled and joined the Byzantines. Khalid bin Al-Walid got him back and returned him to `Abdullah (bin `Umar).
Once a horse of Ibn `Umar also ran away and followed the Byzantines, and he (i.e. Khalid) got it back and returned it to `Abdullah.
Hadith - 274
Narrated Ibn `Umar: That he was riding a horse on the day the Muslims fought (against the Byzantines), and the commander of the Muslim army was Khalid bin Al-Walid who had been appointed by Abu Bakr.
The enemy took the horse away, and when the enemy was defeated, Khalid returned the horse to him.
Hadith - 275
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah: I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! We have slaughtered a young sheep of ours and have ground one Sa of barley. So, I invite you along with some persons."
So, the Prophet (ﷺ) said in a loud voice, "O the people of the Trench! Jabir has prepared "Sur" so come along."
Hadith - 276
Narrated Um Khalid (the daughter of Khalid bin Sa`id): I went to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) with my father and I was wearing a yellow shirt. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Sanah, Sanah!"
(`Abdullah, the narrator, said that "Sanah" meant 'good' in the Ethiopian language). I then started playing with the seal of Prophethood (in between the Prophet's shoulders) and my father rebuked me harshly for that.
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Leave her," and then Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (invoked Allah to grant me a long life) by saying (thrice), "Wear this dress till it is worn out, and then wear it till it is worn out, and then wear it till it is worn out."
(The narrator adds, "It is said that she lived for a long period, wearing that (yellow) dress till its color became dark because of long wear.")
Hadith - 277
Narrated Abu Huraira: Al-Hasan bin 'Ali took a date from the dates of the Sadaqa and put it in his mouth.
The Prophet (ﷺ) said (to him) in Persian, "Kakh, kakh! Don't you know that we do not eat the Sadaqa (i.e. what is given in charity) (charity is the dirt of the people)."
Hadith - 278
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) got up amongst us and mentioned Al Ghulul, emphasized its magnitude and declared that it was a great sin saying, "Don't commit Ghulul for I should not like to see anyone amongst you on the Day of Resurrection, carrying over his neck a sheep that will be bleating, or carrying over his neck a horse that will be neighing.
Such a man will be saying: 'O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Intercede with Allah for me,' and I will reply, 'I can't help you, for I have conveyed Allah's Message to you'.
Nor should I like to see a man carrying over his neck a camel that will be grunting. Such a man will say, 'O Allah's Apostle! Intercede with Allah for me,' and I will say, 'I can't help you for I have conveyed Allah's Message to you,' or one carrying over his neck gold and silver and saying, 'O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Intercede with Allah for me,' and I will say, 'I can't help you for I have conveyed Allah's Message to you,' or one carrying clothes that will be fluttering, and the man will say, 'O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Intercede with Allah for me.' And I will say, 'I can't help you, for I have conveyed Allah's Message to you.'"
Hadith - 279
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Amr: There was a man who looked after the family and the belongings of the Prophet (ﷺ) and he was called Kirkira. The man died and Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "He is in the (Hell) Fire."
The people then went to look at him and found in his place a cloak he had stolen from the war booty.
Hadith - 280
Narrated Abaya bin Rifaa: My grandfather, Rafi` said, "We were in the company of the Prophet (ﷺ) at Dhul-Hulaifa, and the people suffered from hunger. We got some camels and sheep (as booty) and the Prophet (ﷺ) was still behind the people.
They hurried and put the cooking pots on the fire. (When he came) he ordered that the cooking pots should be upset and then he distributed the booty (amongst the people) regarding ten sheep as equal to one camel.
Then a camel fled and the people chased it till they got tired, as they had a few horses (for chasing it). So a man threw an arrow at it and caused it to stop (with Allah's Permission).
On that, the Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'Some of these animals behave like wild beasts, so, if any animal flees from you, deal with it in the same way.'
My grandfather asked (the Prophet (ﷺ) ), "We hope (or are afraid) that we may meet the enemy tomorrow and we have no knives. Can we slaughter our animals with canes?"
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) replied, "If the instrument used for killing causes the animal to bleed profusely and if Allah's Name is mentioned on killing it, then eat its meat (i.e. it is lawful) but don't use a tooth or a nail, and I am telling you the reason: A tooth is a bone (and slaughtering with a bone is forbidden), and a nail is the slaughtering instrument of the Ethiopians."
Hadith - 281
Narrated Qais: Jarir bin `Abdullah said to me, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said to me, 'Won't you relieve me from Dhul-Khalasa?' Dhul-Khalasa was a house where the tribe of Khatham used to stay, and it used to be called Ka`bat-ul Yamaniya.
So I proceeded with one hundred-and-fifty (men) from the tribe of Ahmas who were good cavalry.
I informed the Prophet (ﷺ) that I could not sit firm on horses, so he stroke me on the chest with his hand and I noticed his finger marks on my chest. He invoked, 'O Allah! Make him firm, and a guiding and rightly-guided man.'
Jarir set out towards that place, dismantled and burnt it, and then sent the good news to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ).
The messenger of Jarir said to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), "O Allah's Apostle! By Him Who has sent you with the Truth, I did not come to you till it (i.e. the house) had been turned (black) like a scabby camel (covered with tar)." So the Prophet (ﷺ) invoked Allah to Bless the horses of the men of Ahmas five times.
Hadith - 282
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, on the day of the Conquest of Mecca, "There is no migration (after the Conquest), but Jihad and good intentions, and when you are called for Jihad, you should immediately respond to the call."
Hadith - 283
Narrated Abu `Uthman An-Nahdi: Mujashi (bin Mas`ud) took his brother Mujalid bin Mas'ud to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said, "This is Mujalid and he will give a pledge of allegiance to you for migration."
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "There is no migration after the Conquest of Mecca, but I will take his pledge of allegiance for Islam."
Hadith - 284
Narrated `Ata': I and 'Ubai bin `Umar went to `Aisha while she was staying near Thabir (i.e. a mountain). She said, "There is no Migration after Allah gave His Prophet victory over Mecca."
Hadith - 285
Narrated Sa`d bin 'Ubaida: Abu `Abdur-Rahman, who was one of the supporters of `Uthman, said to Abu Talha who was one of the supporters of `Ali, "I perfectly know what encouraged your leader (i.e. `Ali) to shed blood.
I heard him saying: Once the Prophet (ﷺ) sent me and Az-Zubair saying, 'Proceed to such-and-such Ar-Roudah (place) where you will find a lady whom Hatib has given a letter. So when we arrived at Ar-Roudah, we requested the lady to hand over the letter to us.
She said, "Hatib has not given me any letter." We said to her, "Take out the letter or else we will strip off your clothes." So she took it out of her braid.
So the Prophet (ﷺ) sent for Hatib, (who came) and said, 'Don't hurry in judging me, for, by Allah, I have not become a disbeliever, and my love to Islam is increasing.
(The reason for writing this letter was) that there is none of your companions but has relatives in Mecca who look after their families and property, while I have nobody there, so I wanted to do them some favor (so that they might look after my family and property).'
The Prophet (ﷺ) believed him. `Umar said, 'Allow me to chop off his (i.e. Hatib's) neck as he has done hypocrisy.'
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, (to `Umar), 'Who knows, perhaps Allah has looked at the warriors of Badr and said (to them), 'Do whatever you like, for I have forgiven you.'"
Abu `Abdur-Rahman added, "So this is what encouraged him (i.e. `Ali)."
Hadith - 286
Narrated Ibn Abi Mulaika: Ibn Az-Zubair said to Ibn Ja`far, "Do you remember when I, you and Ibn `Abbas went out to receive Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)?" Ibn Ja`far replied in the affirmative.
Ibn Az-Zubair added, "And Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) made us (i.e. I and Ibn `Abbas) ride along with him and left you."
Hadith - 287
Narrated As-Sa'ib bin Yazid: I, along with some boys, went out to receive Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) at Thaniyat al-Wada.
Hadith - 288
Narrated `Abdullah: When the Prophet (ﷺ) returned (from Jihad), he would say Takbir thrice and add, "We are returning, if Allah wishes, with repentance and worshipping and praising (our Lord) and prostrating ourselves before our Lord.
Allah fulfilled His Promise and helped His Slave, and He Alone defeated the (infidel) clans."
Hadith - 289
Narrated Anas bin Malik: We were in the company of the Prophet (ﷺ) while returning from 'Usfan, and Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was riding his she-camel keeping Safiya bint Huyay riding behind him.
His she-camel slipped and both of them fell down. Abu Talha jumped from his camel and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! May Allah sacrifice me for you." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Take care of the lady."
So, Abu Talha covered his face with a garment and went to Safiya and covered her with it, and then he set right the condition of their she-camel so that both of them rode, and we were encircling Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) like a cover.
When we approached Medina, the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "We are returning with repentance and worshipping and praising our Lord." He kept on saying this till he entered Medina.
Hadith - 290
Narrated Anas bin Malik: That he and Abu Talha came in the company of the Prophet (ﷺ) and Safiya was accompanying the Prophet, who let her ride behind him on his she-camel. During the journey, the she-camel slipped and both the Prophet (ﷺ) and (his) wife fell down.
Abu Talha (the sub-narrator thinks that Anas said that Abu Talha jumped from his camel quickly) said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! May Allah sacrifice me for your sake! Did you get hurt?" The Prophet (ﷺ) replied, "No, but take care of the lady."
Abu Talha covered his face with his garment and proceeded towards her and covered her with his garment, and she got up.
He then set right the condition of their she-camel and both of them (i.e. the Prophet (ﷺ) and his wife) rode and proceeded till they approached Medina.
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "We are returning with repentance and worshipping and praising our Lord." The Prophet (ﷺ) kept on saying this statement till he entered Medina.
Hadith - 291
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah: I was on a journey in the company of the Prophet (ﷺ) and when we reached Medina, he said to me, "Enter the Mosque and offer two rak`at."
Hadith - 292
Narrated Ka`b: Whenever the Prophet (ﷺ) returned from a journey in the forenoon, he would enter the Mosque and offer two rak`at before sitting.
Hadith - 293
Narrated Muharib bin Dithar: Jabir bin `Abdullah said, "When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) arrived at Medina, he slaughtered a camel or a cow."
Jabir added, "The Prophet (ﷺ) bought a camel from me for two Uqiyas (of gold) and one or two Dirhams. When he reached Sirar, he ordered that a cow be slaughtered and they ate its meat.
When he arrived at Medina, he ordered me to go to the Mosque and offer two rak`at, and weighed (and gave) me the price of the camel."
Hadith - 294
Narrated Jabir: Once I returned from a journey and the Prophet (ﷺ) said (to me) "Offer two rak`at." (Sirar is a place near Medina).