Hadith - 1
Narrated Abu 'Is-haq: Once, while I was sitting beside Zaid bin Al-Arqam, he was asked, "How many Ghazwat did the Prophet undertake?" Zaid replied, "Nineteen." They said, "In how many Ghazwat did you join him?" He replied, "Seventeen." I asked, "Which of these was the first?" He replied, "Al-`Ashira or Al-`Ashiru."
Hadith - 2
Narrated `Abdullah bin Mas`ud: From Sa`d bin Mu`adh: Sa`d bin Mu`adh was an intimate friend of Umaiya bin Khalaf and whenever Umaiya passed through Medina, he used to stay with Sa`d, and whenever Sa`d went to Mecca, he used to stay with Umaiya. When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) arrived at Medina, Sa`d went to perform `Umra and stayed at Umaiya's home in Mecca. He said to Umaiya, "Tell me of a time when (the Mosque) is empty so that I may be able to perform Tawaf around the Ka`ba." So Umaiya went with him about midday. Abu Jahl met them and said, "O Abu Safwan! Who is this man accompanying you?" He said, "He is Sa`d." Abu Jahl addressed Sa`d saying, "I see you wandering about safely in Mecca inspite of the fact that you have given shelter to the people who have changed their religion (i.e. became Muslims) and have claimed that you will help them and support them. By Allah, if you were not in the company of Abu Safwan, you would not be able to go your family safely." Sa`d, raising his voice, said to him, "By Allah, if you should stop me from doing this (i.e. performing Tawaf) I would certainly prevent you from something which is more valuable for you, that is, your passage through Medina." On this, Umaiya said to him, "O Sa`d do not raise your voice before Abul-Hakam, the chief of the people of the Valley (of Mecca)." Sa`d said, "O Umaiya, stop that! By Allah, I have heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) predicting that the Muslim will kill you." Umaiya asked, "In Mecca?" Sa`d said, "I do not know." Umaiya was greatly scared by that news. When Umaiya returned to his family, he said to his wife, "O Um Safwan! Don't you know what Sa`d told me?" She said, "What has he told you?" He replied, "He claims that Muhammad has informed them (i.e. companions) that they will kill me. I asked him, 'In Mecca?' He replied, 'I do not know.'" Then Umaiya added, "By Allah, I will never go out of Mecca." But when the day of (the Ghazwa of) Badr came, Abu Jahl called the people to war, saying, "Go and protect your caravan." But Umaiya disliked to go out (of Mecca). Abu Jahl came to him and said, "O Abu Safwan! If the people see you staying behind though you are the chief of the people of the Valley, then they will remain behind with you." Abu Jahl kept on urging him to go until he (i.e. Umaiya) said, "As you have forced me to change my mind, by Allah, I will buy the best camel in Mecca. Then Umaiya said (to his wife). "O Um Safwan, prepare what I need (for the journey)." She said to him, "O Abu Safwan! Have you forgotten what your Yathribi brother told you?" He said, "No, but I do not want to go with them but for a short distance." So when Umaiya went out, he used to tie his camel wherever he camped. He kept on doing that till Allah caused him to be killed at Badr.
Hadith - 3
Narrated Ka`b bin Malik: I never failed to join Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) in any of his Ghazawat except in the Ghazwa of Tabuk. However, I did not take part in the Ghazwa of Badr, but none who failed to take part in it, was blamed, for Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had gone out to meet the caravans of (Quraish, but Allah caused them (i.e. Muslims) to meet their enemy unexpectedly (with no previous intention).
Hadith - 4
Narrated Ibn Masud: I witnessed Al-Miqdad bin Al-Aswad in a scene which would have been dearer to me than anything had I been the hero of that scene. He (i.e. Al-Miqdad) came to the Prophet (ﷺ) while the Prophet (ﷺ) was urging the Muslims to fight with the pagans. Al-Miqdad said, "We will not say as the People of Moses said: Go you and your Lord and fight you two. (5.27). But we shall fight on your right and on your left and in front of you and behind you." I saw the face of the Prophet (ﷺ) getting bright with happiness, for that saying delighted him.
Hadith - 5
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: On the day of the battle of Badr, the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O Allah! I appeal to You (to fulfill) Your Covenant and Promise. O Allah! If Your Will is that none should worship You (then give victory to the pagans)." Then Abu Bakr took hold of him by the hand and said, "This is sufficient for you." The Prophet came out saying, "Their multitude will be put to flight and they will show their backs.
Hadith - 6
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: The believers who failed to join the Ghazwa of Badr and those who took part in it are not equal (in reward).
Hadith - 7
Narrated Al-Bara: I and Ibn `Umar were considered too young to take part in the battle of Badr.
Hadith - 8
Narrated Al-Bara: I and Ibn `Umar were considered too young (to take part) in the battle of Badr, and the number of the Emigrant warriors were over sixty (men) and the Ansar were over.
Hadith - 9
Narrated Al-Bara: The companions of (the Prophet) Muhammad who took part in Badr, told me that their number was that of Saul's (i.e. Talut's) companions who crossed the river (of Jordan) with him and they were over three-hundred-and-ten men. By Allah, none crossed the river with him but a believer. (Surah 2: Ayah 249).
Hadith - 10
Narrated Al-Bara: We, the Companions of Muhammad used to say that the number of the warriors of Badr was the same as the number of Saul's companions who crossed the river (of Jordan) with him, and none crossed the river with him but a believer, and the were over three-hundred-and-ten men.
Hadith - 11
Narrated Al-Bara: We used to say that the warriors of Badr were over three-hundred-and-ten, as many as the Companions of Saul who crossed the river with him; and none crossed the river with him but a believer.
Hadith - 12
Narrated `Abdullah bin Mas`ud: The Prophet (ﷺ) faced the Ka`ba and invoked evil on some people of Quraish, on Shaiba bin Rabi`a, `Utba bin Rabi`a, Al-Walid bin `Utba and Abu Jahl bin Hisham. I bear witness, by Allah, that I saw them all dead, putrefied by the sun as that day was a very hot day.
Hadith - 13
Narrated `Abdullah That he came across Abu Jahl while he was on the point of death on the day of: Badr. Abu Jahl said, "You should not be proud that you have killed me nor I am ashamed of being killed by my own folk.
Hadith - 14
Narrated Anas: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Who will go and see what has happened to Abu Jahl?" Ibn Mas`ud went and found that the two sons of 'Afra had struck him fatally (and he was in his last breaths). `Abdullah bin Mas`ud said, "Are you Abu Jahl?" And took him by the beard. Abu Jahl said, "Can there be a man superior to one you have killed or one whom his own folk have killed?
Hadith - 15
Narrated Anas: On the day of Badr, the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Who will go and see what has happened to Abu Jahl?" Ibn Mas`ud went and found that the two sons of 'Afra had struck him fatally. `Abdullah bin Mas`ud got hold of his beard and said, "'Are you Abu Jahl?" He replied, "Can there be a man more superior to one whom his own folk have killed (or you have killed)?
Hadith - 16
Narrated Anas bin Malik: (as above Hadith).
Hadith - 17
Narrated `Abdur-Rahman bin `Auf: (the grandfather of Salih bin Ibrahim) the story of Badr, namely, the narration regarding the sons of 'Afra.
Hadith - 18
Narrated Abu Mijlaz: From Qais bin Ubad: `Ali bin Abi Talib said, "I shall be the first man to kneel down before (Allah), the Beneficent to receive His judgment on the day of Resurrection (in my favor)." Qais bin Ubad also said, "The following Verse was revealed in their connection: "These two opponents believers and disbelievers) Dispute with each other about their Lord." (Surah 22: Ayah 19) Qais said that they were those who fought on the day of Badr, namely, Hamza, `Ali, 'Ubaida or Abu 'Ubaida bin Al-Harith, Shaiba bin Rabi`a, `Utba and Al-Walid bin `Utba.
Hadith - 19
Narrated Abu Dhar: The following Holy Verse: "These two opponents (believers & disbelievers) dispute with each other about their Lord," (Surah 22: Ayah 19) was revealed concerning six men from Quraish, namely, `Ali, Hamza, 'Ubaida bin Al-Harith; Shaiba bin Rabi`a, `Utba bin Rabi`a and Al-Walid bin `Utba.
Hadith - 20
Narrated `Ali: The following Holy Verse:  "These two opponents (believers and disbelievers) dispute with each other about their Lord." (Surah 22: Ayah 19) was revealed concerning us.
Hadith - 21
Narrated Qais bin Ubad: I heard Abu Dhar swearing that these Holy Verses were revealed in connection with those six persons on the day of Badr.
Hadith - 22
Narrated Qais: I heard Abu Dhar swearing that the following Holy verse: "These two opponents (believers and disbelievers) disputing with each other about their Lord," (Surah 22: Ayah 19) was revealed concerning those men who fought on the day of Badr, namely, Hamza, `Ali, Ubaida bin Al-Harith, `Utba and Shaiba - the two sons of Rabi`a - and Al-Walid bin `Utba.
Hadith - 23
Narrated Abu 'Is-haq: A man asked Al-Bara' and I was listening, "Did `Ali take part in (the battle of) Badr?" Al-Bara' said, "(Yes). he even met (his enemies) in a duel and was clad in two armors (one over the other).
Hadith - 24
Narrated `Abdur-Rahman bin `Auf: "I had an agreement with Umaiya bin Khalaf (that he would look after my relatives and property in Mecca, and I would look after his relatives and property in Medina)." `Abdur-Rahman then mentioned the killing of Umaiya and his son on the day of Badr, and Bilal said, "Woe to me if Umaiya remains safe (i.e. alive).
Hadith - 25
Narrated 'Abdullah: The Prophet (ﷺ) recited Surat-an-Najm and then prostrated himself, and all who were with him prostrated too. But an old man took a handful of dust and touched his forehead with it saying, "This is sufficient for me." Later on I saw him killed as an infidel.
Hadith - 26
Narrated 'Urwa (the son of Az-Zubair): Az-Zubair had three scars caused by the sword, one of which was over his shoulder and I used to insert my fingers in it. He received two of those wounds on the day of Badr and one on the day of Al-Yarmuk. When 'Abdullah bin Zubair was killed, 'Abdul-Malik bin Marwan said to me, "O 'Urwa, do you recognize the sword of Az-Zubair?" I said, "Yes." He said, "What marks does it have?" I replied, "It has a dent in its sharp edge which was caused in it on the day of Badr." 'Abdul-Malik said, "You are right! (i.e. their swords) have dents because of clashing with the regiments of the enemies Then 'Abdul-Malik returned that sword to me (i.e. Urwa). (Hisham, 'Urwa's son said, "We estimated the price of the sword as three-thousand (Dinars) and after that it was taken by one of us (i.e. the inheritors) and I wish I could have had it.
Hadith - 27
Narrated Hisham: That his father said, "The sword of Az-Zubair was decorated with silver." Hisham added, "The sword of `Urwa was (also) decorated with silver.
Hadith - 28
Narrated `Urwa: On the day of (the battle) of Al-Yarmuk, the companions of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said to Az-Zubair, "Will you attack the enemy so that we shall attack them with you?" Az-Zubair replied, "If I attack them, you people would not support me." They said, "No, we will support you." So Az-Zubair attacked them (i.e. Byzantine) and pierced through their lines, and went beyond them and none of his companions was with him. Then he returned and the enemy got hold of the bridle of his (horse) and struck him two blows (with the sword) on his shoulder. Between these two wounds there was a scar caused by a blow, he had received on the day of Badr (battle). When I was a child I used to play with those scars by putting my fingers in them. On that day (my brother) "Abdullah bin Az-Zubair was also with him and he was ten years old. Az-Zubair had carried him on a horse and let him to the care of some men.
Hadith - 29
Narrated Abu Talha: On the day of Badr, the Prophet (ﷺ) ordered that the corpses of twenty four leaders of Quraish should be thrown into one of the dirty dry wells of Badr. (It was a habit of the Prophet (ﷺ) that whenever he conquered some people, he used to stay at the battle-field for three nights. So, on the third day of the battle of Badr, he ordered that his she-camel be saddled, then he set out, and his companions followed him saying among themselves." "Definitely he (i.e. the Prophet) is proceeding for some great purpose." When he halted at the edge of the well, he addressed the corpses of the Quraish infidels by their names and their fathers' names, "O so-and-so, son of so-and-so and O so-and-so, son of so-and-so! Would it have pleased you if you had obeyed Allah and His Apostle? We have found true what our Lord promised us. Have you too found true what your Lord promised you? "`Umar said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! You are speaking to bodies that have no souls!" Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "By Him in Whose Hand Muhammad's soul is, you do not hear, what I say better than they do." (Qatada said, "Allah brought them to life (again) to let them hear him, to reprimand them and slight them and take revenge over them and caused them to feel remorseful and regretful.
Hadith - 30
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: regarding the Statement of Allah: "Those who have changed Allah's Blessings for disbelief..." (Surah 14: Ayah 28) The people meant here by Allah, are the infidels of Quraish. (`Amr, a sub-narrator said, "Those are (the infidels of) Quraish and Muhammad is Allah's Blessing. Regarding Allah's Statement: "..and have led their people Into the house of destruction?" (Surah 14: Ayah 29). Ibn `Abbas said, "It means the Fire they will suffer from (after their death) on the day of Badr."
Hadith - 31
Narrated Hisham's father: It was mentioned before `Aisha that Ibn `Umar attributed the following statement to the Prophet (ﷺ) "The dead person is punished in the grave because of the crying and lamentation Of his family." On that, `Aisha said, "But Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, 'The dead person is punished for his crimes and sins while his family cry over him then." She added, "And this is similar to the statement of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) when he stood by the (edge of the) well which contained the corpses of the pagans killed at Badr, 'They hear what I say.' She added, "But he said now they know very well what I used to tell them was the truth." `Aisha then recited: 'You cannot make the dead hear.' (Surah 30: Ayah 52) and 'You cannot make those who are in their Graves, hear you.' (Surah 35: Ayah 22) that is, when they had taken their places in the (Hell) Fire.
Hadith - 32
Narrated Ibn `Umar: The Prophet (ﷺ) stood at the well of Badr (which contained the corpses of the pagans) and said, "Have you found true what your lord promised you?" Then he further said, "They now hear what I say." This was mentioned before `Aisha and she said, "But the Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'Now they know very well that what I used to tell them was the truth.' Then she recited (the Holy Verse):  "You cannot make the dead hear..." till the end of Verse.
Hadith - 33
Narrated Anas: Haritha was martyred on the day (of the battle) of Badr, and he was a young boy then. His mother came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! You know how dear Haritha is to me. If he is in Paradise, I shall remain patient, and hope for reward from Allah, but if it is not so, then you shall see what I do?" He said, "May Allah be merciful to you! Have you lost your senses? Do you think there is only one Paradise? There are many Paradises and your son is in the (most superior) Paradise of Al-Firdaus.
Hadith - 34
Narrated `Ali: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) sent me, Abu Marthad and Az-Zubair, and all of us were riding horses, and said, "Go till you reach Raudat-Khakh where there is a pagan woman carrying a letter from Hatib bin Abi Balta'a to the pagans of Mecca." So we found her riding her camel at the place which Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had mentioned. We said (to her),"(Give us) the letter." She said, "I have no letter." Then we made her camel kneel down and we searched her, but we found no letter. Then we said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had not told us a lie, certainly. Take out the letter, otherwise we will strip you naked." When she saw that we were determined, she put her hand below her waist belt, for she had tied her cloak round her waist, and she took out the letter, and we brought her to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) Then `Umar said, "O Allah's Apostle! (This Hatib) has betrayed Allah, His Apostle and the believers! Let me cut off his neck!" The Prophet asked Hatib, "What made you do this?" Hatib said, "By Allah, I did not intend to give up my belief in Allah and His Apostle but I wanted to have some influence among the (Mecca) people so that through it, Allah might protect my family and property. There is none of your companions but has some of his relatives there through whom Allah protects his family and property." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "He has spoken the truth; do no say to him but good." `Umar said, "He as betrayed Allah, His Apostle and the faithful believers. Let me cut off his neck!" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Is he not one of the Badr warriors? May be Allah looked at the Badr warriors and said, 'Do whatever you like, as I have granted Paradise to you, or said, 'I have forgiven you."' On this, tears came out of `Umar's eyes, and he said, "Allah and His Apostle know better.
Hadith - 35
Narrated Usaid: On the day of Badr, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said to us, "When the enemy comes near to you, shoot at them but use your arrows sparingly (so that your arrows should not be wasted).
Hadith - 36
Narrated Abu Usaid: On the day of (the battle of) Badr, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said to us, "When your enemy comes near to you (i.e. overcome you by sheer number), shoot at them but use your arrows sparingly.
Hadith - 37
Narrated Al-Bara' bin `Azib: On the day of Uhud the Prophet (ﷺ) appointed `Abdullah bin Jubair as chief of the archers, and seventy among us were injured and martyred. On the day (of the battle) of Badr, the Prophet (ﷺ) and his companions had inflicted 140 casualties on the pagans, 70 were taken prisoners, and 70 were killed. Abu Sufyan said, "This is a day of (revenge) for the day of Badr and the issue of war is undecided.
Hadith - 38
Narrated Abu Musa: That the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The good is what Allah gave us later on (after Uhud), and the reward of truthfulness is what Allah gave us after the day (of the battle) of Badr.
Hadith - 39
Narrated `Abdur-Rahman bin `Auf: While I was fighting in the front file on the day (of the battle) of Badr, suddenly I looked behind and saw on my right and left two young boys and did not feel safe by standing between them. Then one of them asked me secretly so that his companion may not hear, "O Uncle! Show me Abu Jahl." I said, "O nephew! What will you do to him?" He said, "I have promised Allah that if I see him (i.e. Abu Jahl), I will either kill him or be killed before I kill him." Then the other said the same to me secretly so that his companion should not hear. I would not have been pleased to be in between two other men instead of them. Then I pointed him (i.e. Abu Jahl) out to them. Both of them attacked him like two hawks till they knocked him down. Those two boys were the sons of 'Afra' (i.e. an Ansari woman).
Hadith - 40
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) sent out ten spies under the command of `Asim bin Thabit Al-Ansari, the grand-father of `Asim bin `Umar Al-Khattab. When they reached (a place called) Al-Hadah between 'Usfan and Mecca, their presence was made known to a sub-tribe of Hudhail called Banu Lihyan. So they sent about one hundred archers after them. The archers traced the footsteps (of the Muslims) till they found the traces of dates which they had eaten at one of their camping places. The archers said, "These dates are of Yathrib (i.e. Medina)," and went on tracing the Muslims' footsteps. When `Asim and his companions became aware of them, they took refuge in a (high) place. But the enemy encircled them and said, "Come down and surrender. We give you a solemn promise and covenant that we will not kill anyone of you." `Asim bin Thabit said, "O people! As for myself, I will never get down to be under the protection of an infidel. O Allah! Inform your Prophet about us." So the archers threw their arrows at them and martyred `Asim. Three of them came down and surrendered to them, accepting their promise and covenant and they were Khubaib, Zaid bin Ad-Dathina and another man. When the archers got hold of them, they untied the strings of the arrow bows and tied their captives with them. The third man said, "This is the first proof of treachery! By Allah, I will not go with you for I follow the example of these." He meant the martyred companions. The archers dragged him and struggled with him (till they martyred him). Then Khubaib and Zaid bin Ad-Dathina were taken away by them and later on they sold them as slaves in Mecca after the event of the Badr battle. The sons of Al-Harith bin `Amr bin Naufal bought Khubaib for he was a person who had killed (their father) Al-Harith bin `Amr on the day (of the battle) of Badr. Khubaib remained imprisoned by them till they decided unanimously to kill him. One day Khubaib borrowed from a daughter of Al-Harith, a razor for shaving his pubic hair, and she lent it to him. By chance, while she was inattentive, a little son of hers went to him (i.e. Khubaib) and she saw that Khubaib had seated him on his thigh while the razor was in his hand, she was so much terrified that Khubaib noticed her fear and said, "Are you afraid that I will kill him? Never would I do such a thing." Later on (while narrating the story) she said, "By Allah, I had never seen a better captive than Khubaib. By Allah, one day I saw him eating from a bunch of grapes in his hand while he was fettered with iron chains and (at that time) there was no fruit in Mecca." She used to say, "It was food Allah had provided Khubaib with." When they took him to Al-Hil out of Mecca sanctuary to martyr him, Khubaib requested them, "Allow me to offer a two-rak`at prayer." They allowed him and he prayed two rak`at and then said, "By Allah! Had I not been afraid that you would think I was worried, I would have prayed more." Then he (invoked evil upon them) saying, "O Allah! Count them and kill them one by one, and do not leave anyone of them"' Then he recited: "As I am martyred as a Muslim, I do not care in what way I receive my death for Allah's Sake, for this is for the Cause of Allah. If He wishes, He will bless the cut limbs of my body." Then Abu Sirwa', 'Uqba bin Al-Harith, went up to him and killed him. It was Khubaib who set the tradition of praying for any Muslim to be martyred in captivity (before he is executed). The Prophet (ﷺ) told his companions of what had happened (to those ten spies) on the same day they were martyred. Some Quraish people, being informed of `Asim bin Thabit's death, sent some messengers to bring a part of his body so that his death might be known for certain, for he had previously killed one of their leaders (in the battle of Badr). But Allah sent a swarm of wasps to protect the dead body of `Asim, and they shielded him from the messengers who could not cut anything from his body.
Hadith - 41
Narrated Nafi: Ibn 'Umar was once told that Said bin Zaid bin 'Amr bin Nufail, one of the Badr warriors, had fallen ill on a Friday. Ibn 'Umar rode to him late in the forenoon. The time of the Friday prayer approached and Ibn 'Umar did not take part in the Friday prayer.
Hadith - 42
Narrated Subai'a bint Al-Harith: That she was married to Sad bin Khaula who was from the tribe of Bani 'Amr bin Luai, and was one of those who fought the Badr battle. He died while she was pregnant during Hajjat-ul-Wada.' Soon after his death, she gave birth to a child. When she completed the term of deliver (i.e. became clean), she prepared herself for suitors. Abu As-Sanabil bin Ba'kak, a man from the tribe of Bani Abd-ud-Dar, called on her and said to her, "What! I see you dressed up for the people to ask you in marriage. Do you want to marry? By Allah, you are not allowed to marry unless four months and ten days have elapsed (after your husband's death)." Subai'a in her narration said, "When he (i.e. Abu As-Sanabil) said this to me, I put on my dress in the evening and went to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and asked him about this problem. He gave the verdict that I was free to marry as I had already given birth to my child and ordered me to marry if I wished."
Hadith - 43
Narrated Rifaa: (who was one of the Badr warriors) Gabriel came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said, "How do you look upon the warriors of Badr among yourselves?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "As the best of the Muslims." or said a similar statement. On that, Gabriel said, "And so are the Angels who participated in the Badr (battle).
Hadith - 44
Narrated Mu`adh bin Rifa`a bin Rafi`: Rifa`a was one of the warriors of Badr while (his father) Rafi` was one of the people of Al-`Aqaba (i.e. those who gave the pledge of allegiance at Al-`Aqaba). Rafi` used to say to his son, "I would not have been happier if I had taken part in the Badr battle instead of taking part in the 'Aqaba pledge.
Hadith - 45
Narrated Mu`adh: The one who asked (the Prophet) was Gabriel (refer to Hadith).
Hadith - 46
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: The Prophet (ﷺ) said on the day (of the battle) of Badr, "This is Gabriel holding the head of his horse and equipped with arms for the battle.
Hadith - 47
Narrated Anas: Abu Zaid died and did not leave any offspring, and he was one of the Badr warriors.
Hadith - 48
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: Abu Sa`id bin Malik Al-Khudri returned from a journey and his family offered him some meat of sacrifices offered at `Id ul Adha. On that he said, "I will not eat it before asking (whether it is allowed)." He went to his maternal brother, Qatada bin N i 'man, who was one of the Badr warriors, and asked him about it. Qatada said, "After your departure, an order was issued by the Prophet (ﷺ) cancelling the prohibition of eating sacrifices after three days.
Hadith - 49
Narrated `Urwa: Az-Zubair said, "I met Ubaida bin Sa`id bin Al-As on the day (of the battle) of Badr and he was covered with armor; so much that only his eyes were visible. He was surnamed Abu Dhat-al-Karish. He said (proudly), 'I am Abu Dhat-al-Karish.' I attacked him with the spear and pierced his eye and he died. I put my foot over his body to pull (that spear) out, but even then I had to use a great force to take it out as its both ends were bent." `Urwa said, "Later on Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) asked Az-Zubair for the spear and he gave it to him. When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) died, Az-Zubair took it back. After that Abu Bakr demanded it and he gave it to him, and when Abu Bakr died, Az-Zubair took it back. `Umar then demanded it from him and he gave it to him. When `Umar died, Az-Zubair took it back, and then `Uthman demanded it from him and he gave it to him. When `Uthman was martyred, the spear remained with `Ali's offspring. Then `Abdullah bin Az-Zubair demanded it back, and it remained with him till he was martyred.
Hadith - 50
Narrated 'Ubada bin As-Samit: (who was one of the Badr warriors) Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Give me the pledge of allegiance.
Hadith - 51
Narrated `Aisha (the wife of the Prophet): Abu Hudhaifa, one of those who fought the battle of Badr with Allah's Apostle, adopted Salim as his son and married his niece Hind bint Al-Walid bin `Utba to him, and Salim was a freed slave of an Ansari woman. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) also adopted Zaid as his son. In the Pre-Islamic period of ignorance the custom was that, if one adopted a son, the people would call him by the name of the adopted-father whom he would inherit as well, till Allah revealed: "Call them (adopted sons) by (the names of) their fathers."
Hadith - 52
Narrated Ar-Rubai bint Muawwidh: The Prophet (ﷺ) came to me the night my marriage was consummated and sat down on my bed as you (the sub-narrator) are sitting now, and small girls were beating the tambourine and singing in lamentation of my father who had been killed on the day of the battle of Badr. Then one of the girls said, "There is a Prophet amongst us who knows what will happen tomorrow." The Prophet (ﷺ) said (to her)," Do not say this, but go on saying what you have spoken before.
Hadith - 53
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: Abu Talha, a companion of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and one of those who fought at Badr together with Allah's Apostle told me that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) , "Angels do not enter a house in which there is a dog or a picture." He meant the images of creatures that have souls.
Hadith - 54
Narrated `Ali: I had a she-camel which I got in my share from the booty of the battle of Badr, and the Prophet (ﷺ) had given me another she camel from the Khumus which Allah had bestowed on him that day. And when I intended to celebrate my marriage to Fatima, the daughter of the Prophet, I made an arrangement with a goldsmith from Bani Qainuqa 'that he should go with me to bring Idhkhir (i.e. a kind of grass used by gold-smiths) which I intended to sell to gold-smiths in order to spend its price on the marriage banquet. While I was collecting ropes and sacks of pack saddles for my two she-camels which were kneeling down beside an Ansari's dwelling and after collecting what I needed, I suddenly found that the humps of the two she-camels had been cut off and their flanks had been cut open and portions of their livers had been taken out. On seeing that, I could not help weeping. I asked, "Who has done that?" They (i.e. the people) said, "Hamza bin `Abdul Muttalib has done it. He is present in this house with some Ansari drinkers, a girl singer, and his friends. The singer said in her song, "O Hamza, get at the fat she-camels!" On hearing this, Hamza rushed to his sword and cut of the camels' humps and cut their flanks open and took out portions from their livers." Then I came to the Prophet, with whom Zaid bin Haritha was present. The Prophet (ﷺ) noticed my state and asked, "What is the matter?" I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), I have never experienced such a day as today! Hamza attacked my two she-camels, cut off their humps and cut their flanks open, and he is still present in a house along some drinkers." The Prophet (ﷺ) asked for his cloak, put it on, and proceeded, followed by Zaid bin Haritha and myself, till he reached the house where Hamza was. He asked the permission to enter, and he was permitted. The Prophet (ﷺ) started blaming Hamza for what he had done. Hamza was drunk and his eyes were red. He looked at the Prophet (ﷺ) then raised his eyes to look at his knees and raised his eyes more to look at his face and then said, "You are not but my father's slaves." When the Prophet (ﷺ) understood that Hamza was drunk, he retreated, walking backwards went out and we left with him.
Hadith - 55
Narrated Ibn Ma'qil: `Ali led the funeral prayer of Sahl bin Hunaif and said, "He was one of the warriors of Badr."
Hadith - 56
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar: `Umar bin Al-Khattab said, "When (my daughter) Hafsa bint `Umar lost her husband Khunais bin Hudhaifa As-Sahmi who was one of the companions of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and had fought in the battle of Badr and had died in Medina, I met `Uthman bin `Affan and suggested that he should marry Hafsa saying, "If you wish, I will marry Hafsa bint `Umar to you.' On that, he said, 'I will think it over.' I waited for a few days and then he said to me, 'I am of the opinion that I shall not marry at present.' Then I met Abu Bakr and said, 'if you wish, I will marry you Hafsa bint `Umar.' He kept quiet and did not give me any reply and I became more angry with him than I was with `Uthman. Some days later, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) demanded her hand in marriage and I married her to him. Later on, Abu Bakr met me and said, "Perhaps you were angry with me when you offered me Hafsa for marriage and I gave no reply to you?' I said, 'Yes.' Abu Bakr said, 'Nothing prevented me from accepting your offer except that I learnt that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had referred to the issue of Hafsa and I did not want to disclose the secret of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) , but had he (i.e. the Prophet) given her up I would surely have accepted her.
Hadith - 57
Narrated Abu Masud Al-Badri: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "A man's spending on his family is a deed of charity.
Hadith - 58
Narrated Az-Zuhri: I heard `Urwa bin Az-Zubair talking to `Umar bin `Abdul `Aziz during the latter's Governorship (at Medina), he said, "Al-Mughira bin Shu`ba delayed the `Asr prayer when he was the ruler of Al-Kufa. On that, Abu Mas`ud. `Uqba bin `Amr Al-Ansari, the grand-father of Zaid bin Hasan, who was one of the Badr warriors, came in and said, (to Al-Mughira), 'You know that Gabriel came down and offered the prayer and Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) prayed five prescribed prayers, and Gabriel said (to the Prophet (ﷺ) ), "I have been ordered to do so (i.e. offer these five prayers at these fixed stated hours of the day).
Hadith - 59
Narrated Abu Masud Al-Badri: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "It is sufficient for one to recite the last two Verses of Surat-al-Baqara at night.
Hadith - 60
Narrated Mahmud bin Ar-Rabi: That `Itban bin Malik who was one of the companions of the Prophet (ﷺ) and one of the warriors of Badr, came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ).
Hadith - 61
Narrated Ibn Shihab: I asked Al-Husain bin Muhammad who was one of the sons of Salim and one of the nobles amongst them, about the narration of Mahmud bin Ar-Rabi 'from `Itban bin Malik, and he confirmed it.
Hadith - 62
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Amr bin Rabi`a: who was one of the leaders of Bani `Adi and his father participated in the battle of Badr in the company of the Prophet. `Umar appointed Qudama bin Maz'un as ruler of Bahrain, Qudama was one of the warriors of the battle of Badr and was the maternal uncle of `Abdullah bin `Umar and Hafsa.
Hadith - 63
Narrated Az-Zuhri: Salim bin `Abdullah told me that Rafi` bin Khadij told `Abdullah bin `Umar that his two paternal uncles who had fought in the battle of Badr informed him that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade the renting of fields. I said to Salim, "Do you rent your land?" He said, "Yes, for Rafi` is mistaken.
Hadith - 64
Narrated `Abdullah bin Shaddad bin Al-Had Al-Laithi: I saw Rifa`a bin Rafi` Al-Ansari who was a Badr warrior.
Hadith - 65
Narrated Al-Miswar bin Makhrama: That `Amr bin `Auf, who was an ally of Bani 'Amir bin Luai and one of those who fought at Badr in the company of the Prophet (ﷺ) , said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) sent Abu 'Ubaida bin Al-Jarrah to Bahrain to bring the Jizya taxation from its people, for Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had made a peace treaty with the people of Bahrain and appointed Al-`Ala' bin Al-Hadrami as their ruler. So, Abu 'Ubaida arrived with the money from Bahrain. When the Ansar heard of the arrival of Abu 'Ubaida (on the next day) they offered the morning prayer with the Prophet (ﷺ) and when the morning prayer had finished, they presented themselves before him. On seeing the Ansar, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) smiled and said, "I think you have heard that Abu 'Ubaida has brought something?" They replied, "Indeed, it is so, O Allah's Apostle!" He said, "Be happy, and hope for what will please you. By Allah, I am not afraid that you will be poor, but I fear that worldly wealth will be bestowed upon you as it was bestowed upon those who lived before you. So you will compete amongst yourselves for it, as they competed for it and it will destroy you as it did them.
Hadith - 66
Narrated Nafi`: Ibn `Umar used to kill all kinds of snakes until Abu Lubaba Al-Badri told him that the Prophet (ﷺ) had forbidden the killing of harmless snakes living in houses and called Jinnan. So Ibn `Umar gave up killing them.
Hadith - 67
Narrated Anas bin Malik: Some men of the Ansar requested Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) to allow them to see him, they said, "Allow us to forgive the ransom of our sister's son, `Abbas." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "By Allah, you will not leave a single Dirham of it.
Hadith - 68
Narrated 'Ubaidullah bin `Adi bin Al-Khiyar: That Al-Miqdad bin `Amr Al-Kindi, who was an ally of Bani Zuhra and one of those who fought the battle of Badr together with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) told him that he said to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), "Suppose I met one of the infidels and we fought, and he struck one of my hands with his sword and cut it off and then took refuge in a tree and said, "I surrender to Allah (i.e. I have become a Muslim),' could I kill him, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), after he had said this?" Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "You should not kill him." Al-Miqdad said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! But he had cut off one of my two hands, and then he had uttered those words?" Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) replied, "You should not kill him, for if you kill him, he would be in your position where you had been before killing him, and you would be in his position where he had been before uttering those words.
Hadith - 69
Narrated Anas: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said on the day of Badr, "Who will go and see what has happened to Abu Jahl?" Ibn Mas`ud went and saw him struck by the two sons of 'Afra and was on the point of death . Ibn Mas`ud said, "Are you Abu Jahl?" Abu Jahl replied, "Can there be a man more superior to the one whom you have killed (or as Sulaiman said, or his own folk have killed.)?" Abu Jahl added, "Would that I had been killed by other than a mere farmer.
Hadith - 70
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: `Umar said, "When the Prophet (ﷺ) died, I said to Abu Bakr, 'Let us go to our Ansari brethren.' We met two pious men from them, who had fought in the battle of Badr." When I mentioned this to `Urwa bin Az-Zubair, he said, "Those two pious men were 'Uwaim bin Sa`ida and Ma'n bin Adi."
Hadith - 71
Narrated Qais: The Badr warriors were given five thousand (Dirhams) each, yearly. `Umar said, "I will surely give them more than what I will give to others.
Hadith - 72
Narrated Jubair bin Mut'im: I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) reciting Surat-at-Tur in Maghrib prayer, and that was at a time when belief was first planted in my heart. The Prophet (ﷺ) while speaking about the war prisoners of Badr, said, "Were Al-Mutim bin Adi alive and interceded with me for these filthy people, I would definitely forgive them for his sake.
Hadith - 73
Narrated Said bin Al-Musaiyab: When the first civil strife (in Islam) took place because of the murder of 'Uthman, it left none of the Badr warriors alive. When the second civil strife, that is the battle of Al-Harra, took place, it left none of the Hudaibiya treaty companions alive. Then the third civil strife took place and it did not subside till it had exhausted all the strength of the people.
Hadith - 74
Narrated Yunus bin Yazid: I heard Az-Zuhri saying, "I heard `Urwa bin Az-Zubair. Sa`id bin Al-Musaiyab, 'Alqama bin Waqqas and 'Ubaidullah bin `Abdullah each narrating part of the narrative concerning `Aisha the wife of the Prophet. `Aisha said: When I and Um Mistah were returning, Um Mistah stumbled by treading on the end of her robe, and on that she said, 'May Mistah be ruined.' I said, 'You have said a bad thing, you curse a man who took part in the battle of Badr!." Az-Zuhri then narrated the narration of the Lie (forged against `Aisha).
Hadith - 75
Narrated Ibn Shihab: These were the battles of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (which he fought), and while mentioning (the Badr battle) he said, "While the corpses of the pagans were being thrown into the well, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said (to them), 'Have you found what your Lord promised true?" `Abdullah said, "Some of the Prophet's companions said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! You are addressing dead people.' Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) replied, 'You do not hear what I am saying, better than they.' The total number of Muslim fighters from Quraish who fought in the battle of Badr and were given their share of the booty, were 81 men." Az-Zubair said, "When their shares were distributed, their number was 101 men. But Allah knows it better.
Hadith - 76
Narrated Az-Zubair: On the day of Badr, (Quraishi) Emigrants received 100 shares of the war booty.
Hadith - 77
Narrated Ibn `Umar: Bani An-Nadir and Bani Quraiza fought (against the Prophet (ﷺ) violating their peace treaty), so the Prophet exiled Bani An-Nadir and allowed Bani Quraiza to remain at their places (in Medina) taking nothing from them till they fought against the Prophet (ﷺ) again) . He then killed their men and distributed their women, children and property among the Muslims, but some of them came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and he granted them safety, and they embraced Islam. He exiled all the Jews from Medina. They were the Jews of Bani Qainuqa', the tribe of `Abdullah bin Salam and the Jews of Bani Haritha and all the other Jews of Medina.
Hadith - 78
Narrated Sa`id bin Jubair: I mentioned to Ibn `Abbas Surat-Hashr. He said, "Call it Surat-an-Nadir."
Hadith - 79
Narrated Anas bin Malik: Some people used to allot some date palm trees to the Prophet (ﷺ) as gift till he conquered Banu Quraiza and Bani An-Nadir, where upon he started returning their date palms to them.
Hadith - 80
Narrated Ibn `Umar: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had the date-palm trees of Bani Al-Nadir burnt and cut down at a place called Al-Buwaira. Allah then revealed: "What you cut down of the date-palm trees (of the enemy) Or you left them standing on their stems. It was by Allah's Permission.
Hadith - 81
Narrated Ibn `Umar: The Prophet (ﷺ) burnt the date-palm trees of Bani An-Nadir. Hassan bin Thabit said the following poetic Verses about this event: "the terrible burning of Al-Buwaira Has been received indifferently By the nobles of Bani Luai (The masters and nobles of Quraish)." Abu Sufyan bin Al-Harith (i.e. the Prophet's cousin who was still a disbeliever then) replied to Hassan, saying in poetic verses: "May Allah bless that burning and set all its (i.e. Medina's) Parts on burning fire. You will see who is far from it (i.e. Al-Buwaira) And which of our lands will be Harmed by it (i.e. the burning of Al-Buwaira).
Hadith - 82
Narrated Malik bin Aus Al-Hadathan An-Nasri: That once `Umar bin Al-Khattab called him and while he was sitting with him, his gatekeeper, Yarfa came and said, "Will you admit `Uthman, `Abdur-Rahman bin `Auf, Az-Zubair and Sa`d (bin Abi Waqqas) who are waiting for your permission?" `Umar said, "Yes, let them come in." After a while, Yarfa came again and said, "Will you admit `Ali and `Abbas who are asking your permission?" `Umar said, "Yes." So, when the two entered, `Abbas said, "O chief of the believers! Judge between me and this (i.e. `Ali). "Both of them had a dispute regarding the property of Bani An-Nadir which Allah had given to His Apostle as Fai (i.e. booty gained without fighting), `Ali and `Abbas started reproaching each other. The (present) people (i.e. `Uthman and his companions) said, "O chief of the believers! Give your verdict in their case and relieve each from) the other." `Umar said, "Wait I beseech you, by Allah, by Whose Permission both the heaven and the earth stand fast! Do you know that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, 'We (Prophets) our properties are not to be inherited, and whatever we leave, is to be spent in charity,' and he said it about himself?" They (i.e. `Uthman and his company) said, "He did say it. "`Umar then turned towards `Ali and `Abbas and said, "I beseech you both, by Allah! Do you know that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said this?" They replied in the affirmative. He said, "Now I am talking to you about this matter. Allah the Glorified favored His Apostle with something of this Fai (i.e. booty won without fighting) which He did not give to anybody else. Allah said: "And what Allah gave to His Apostle ("Fai"" Booty) from them - For which you made no expedition with either Cavalry or camelry. But Allah gives power to His Apostles Over whomsoever He will And Allah is able to do all things." (Surah 59: Ayah 6) So this property was especially granted to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) . But by Allah, the Prophet (ﷺ) neither took it all for himself only, nor deprived you of it, but he gave it to all of you and distributed it amongst you till only this remained out of it. And from this Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to spend the yearly maintenance for his family, and whatever used to remain, he used to spend it where Allah's Property is spent (i.e. in charity), Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) kept on acting like that during all his life, Then he died, and Abu Bakr said, 'I am the successor of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ).' So he (i.e. Abu Bakr) took charge of this property and disposed of it in the same manner as Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to do, and all of you (at that time) knew all about it." Then `Umar turned towards `Ali and `Abbas and said, "You both remember that Abu Bakr disposed of it in the way you have described and Allah knows that, in that matter, he was sincere, pious, rightly guided and the follower of the right. Then Allah caused Abu Bakr to die and I said, 'I am the successor of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and Abu Bakr.' So I kept this property in my possession for the first two years of my rule (i.e. Caliphate and I used to dispose of it in the same wa as Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and Abu Bakr used to do; and Allah knows that I have been sincere, pious, rightly guided an the follower of the right (in this matte Later on both of you (i.e. `Ali and `Abbas) came to me, and the claim of you both was one and the same, O `Abbas! You also came to me. So I told you both that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Our property is not inherited, but whatever we leave is to be given in charity.' Then when I thought that I should better hand over this property to you both or the condition that you will promise and pledge before Allah that you will dispose it off in the same way as Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and Abu Bakr did and as I have done since the beginning of my caliphate or else you should not speak to me (about it).' So, both of you said to me, 'Hand it over to us on this condition.' And on this condition I handed it over to you. Do you want me now to give a decision other than that (decision)? By Allah, with Whose Permission both the sky and the earth stand fast, I will never give any decision other than that (decision) till the Last Hour is established. But if you are unable to manage it (i.e. that property), then return it to me, and I will manage on your behalf." The sub-narrator said, "I told `Urwa bin Az-Zubair of this Hadith and he said, "Malik bin Aus has told the truth." I heard `Aisha, the wife of the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, 'The wives of the Prophet (ﷺ) sent `Uthman to Abu Bakr demanding from him their 1/8 of the Fai which Allah had granted to his Apostle. But I used to oppose them and say to them: Will you not fear Allah? Don't you know that the Prophet used to say: Our property is not inherited, but whatever we leave is to be given in charity? The Prophet (ﷺ) mentioned that regarding himself. He added: 'The family of Muhammad can take their sustenance from this property. So the wives of the Prophet (ﷺ) stopped demanding it when I told them of that.' So, this property (of Sadaqa) was in the hands of `Ali who withheld it from `Abbas and overpowered him. Then it came in the hands of Hasan bin `Ali, then in the hands of Husain bin `Ali, and then in the hands of `Ali bin Husain and Hasan bin Hasan, and each of the last two used to manage it in turn, then it came in the hands of Zaid bin Hasan, and it was truly the Sadaqa of Allah's Apostle.
Hadith - 83
Narrated `Aisha: Fatima and Al-`Abbas came to Abu Bakr, claiming their inheritance of the Prophet's land of Fadak and his share from Khaibar. Abu Bakr said, "I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, 'Our property is not inherited, and whatever we leave is to be given in charity. But the family of Muhammad can take their sustenance from this property.' By Allah, I would love to do good to the Kith and kin of Allah's Apostle rather than to my own Kith and kin.
Hadith - 84
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Who is willing to kill Ka`b bin Al-Ashraf who has hurt Allah and His Apostle?" Thereupon Muhammad bin Maslama got up saying, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Would you like that I kill him?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Yes," Muhammad bin Maslama said, "Then allow me to say a (false) thing (i.e. to deceive Ka`b). "The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "You may say it." Then Muhammad bin Maslama went to Ka`b and said, "That man (i.e. Muhammad) demands Sadaqa (i.e. Zakat) from us, and he has troubled us, and I have come to borrow something from you." On that, Ka`b said, "By Allah, you will get tired of him!" Muhammad bin Maslama said, "Now as we have followed him, we do not want to leave him unless and until we see how his end is going to be. Now we want you to lend us a camel load or two of food." (Some difference between narrators about a camel load or two.) Ka`b said, "Yes, (I will lend you), but you should mortgage something to me." Muhammad bin Maslama and his companion said, "What do you want?" Ka`b replied, "Mortgage your women to me." They said, "How can we mortgage our women to you and you are the most handsome of the 'Arabs?" Ka`b said, "Then mortgage your sons to me." They said, "How can we mortgage our sons to you? Later they would be abused by the people's saying that so-and-so has been mortgaged for a camel load of food. That would cause us great disgrace, but we will mortgage our arms to you." Muhammad bin Maslama and his companion promised Ka`b that Muhammad would return to him. He came to Ka`b at night along with Ka`b's foster brother, Abu Na'ila. Ka`b invited them to come into his fort, and then he went down to them. His wife asked him, "Where are you going at this time?" Ka`b replied, "None but Muhammad bin Maslama and my (foster) brother Abu Na'ila have come." His wife said, "I hear a voice as if dropping blood is from him." Ka`b said, "They are none but my brother Muhammad bin Maslama and my foster brother Abu Naila. A generous man should respond to a call at night even if invited to be killed." Muhammad bin Maslama went with two men. (Some narrators mention the men as 'Abu bin Jabr, Al-Harith bin Aus and `Abbad bin Bishr). So Muhammad bin Maslama went in together with two men, and said to them, "When Ka`b comes, I will touch his hair and smell it, and when you see that I have got hold of his head, strip him. I will let you smell his head." Ka`b bin Al-Ashraf came down to them wrapped in his clothes, and diffusing perfume. Muhammad bin Maslama said, "I have never smelt a better scent than this." Ka`b replied, "I have got the best 'Arab women who know how to use the high class of perfume." Muhammad bin Maslama requested Ka`b, "Will you allow me to smell your head?" Ka`b said, "Yes." Muhammad smelt it and made his companions smell it as well. Then he requested Ka`b again, "Will you let me (smell your head)?" Ka`b said, "Yes." When Muhammad got a strong hold of him, he said (to his companions), "Get at him!" So they killed him and went to the Prophet (ﷺ) and informed him. (Abu Rafi`) was killed after Ka`b bin Al-Ashraf.
Hadith - 85
Narrated Al-Bara bin Azib: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) sent a group of persons to Abu Rafi`. `Abdullah bin Atik entered his house at night, while he was sleeping, and killed him.
Hadith - 86
Narrated Al-Bara bin Azib: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) sent some men from the Ansar to ((kill) Abu Rafi`, the Jew, and appointed `Abdullah bin Atik as their leader. Abu Rafi` used to hurt Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and help his enemies against him. He lived in his castle in the land of Hijaz. When those men approached (the castle) after the sun had set and the people had brought back their livestock to their homes. `Abdullah (bin Atik) said to his companions, "Sit down at your places. I am going, and I will try to play a trick on the gate-keeper so that I may enter (the castle)." So `Abdullah proceeded towards the castle, and when he approached the gate, he covered himself with his clothes, pretending to answer the call of nature. The people had gone in, and the gate-keeper (considered `Abdullah as one of the castle's servants) addressing him saying, "O Allah's Servant! Enter if you wish, for I want to close the gate." `Abdullah added in his story, "So I went in (the castle) and hid myself. When the people got inside, the gate-keeper closed the gate and hung the keys on a fixed wooden peg. I got up and took the keys and opened the gate. Some people were staying late at night with Abu Rafi` for a pleasant night chat in a room of his. When his companions of nightly entertainment went away, I ascended to him, and whenever I opened a door, I closed it from inside. I said to myself, 'Should these people discover my presence, they will not be able to catch me till I have killed him.' So I reached him and found him sleeping in a dark house amidst his family, I could not recognize his location in the house. So I shouted, 'O Abu Rafi`!' Abu Rafi` said, 'Who is it?' I proceeded towards the source of the voice and hit him with the sword, and because of my perplexity, I could not kill him. He cried loudly, and I came out of the house and waited for a while, and then went to him again and said, 'What is this voice, O Abu Rafi`?' He said, 'Woe to your mother! A man in my house has hit me with a sword! I again hit him severely but I did not kill him. Then I drove the point of the sword into his belly (and pressed it through) till it touched his back, and I realized that I have killed him. I then opened the doors one by one till I reached the staircase, and thinking that I had reached the ground, I stepped out and fell down and got my leg broken in a moonlit night. I tied my leg with a turban and proceeded on till I sat at the gate, and said, 'I will not go out tonight till I know that I have killed him.' So, when (early in the morning) the cock crowed, the announcer of the casualty stood on the wall saying, 'I announce the death of Abu Rafi`, the merchant of Hijaz. Thereupon I went to my companions and said, 'Let us save ourselves, for Allah has killed Abu Rafi`,' So I (along with my companions proceeded and) went to the Prophet (ﷺ) and described the whole story to him. "He said, 'Stretch out your (broken) leg. I stretched it out and he rubbed it and it became All right as if I had never had any ailment whatsoever.
Hadith - 87
Narrated Al-Bara: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) sent `Abdullah bin 'Atik and `Abdullah bin `Utba with a group of men to Abu Rafi` (to kill him). They proceeded till they approached his castle, whereupon `Abdullah bin Atik said to them, "Wait (here), and in the meantime I will go and see." `Abdullah said later on, "I played a trick in order to enter the castle. By chance, they lost a donkey of theirs and came out carrying a flaming light to search for it. I was afraid that they would recognize me, so I covered my head and legs and pretended to answer the call to nature. The gatekeeper called, 'Whoever wants to come in, should come in before I close the gate.' So I went in and hid myself in a stall of a donkey near the gate of the castle. They took their supper with Abu Rafi` and had a chat till late at night. Then they went back to their homes. When the voices vanished and I no longer detected any movement, I came out. I had seen where the gate-keeper had kept the key of the castle in a hole in the wall. I took it and unlocked the gate of the castle, saying to myself, 'If these people should notice me, I will run away easily.' Then I locked all the doors of their houses from outside while they were inside, and ascended to Abu Rafi` by a staircase. I saw the house in complete darkness with its light off, and I could not know where the man was. So I called, 'O Abu Rafi`!' He replied, 'Who is it?' I proceeded towards the voice and hit him. He cried loudly but my blow was futile. Then I came to him, pretending to help him, saying with a different tone of my voice, ' What is wrong with you, O Abu Rafi`?' He said, 'Are you not surprised? Woe on your mother! A man has come to me and hit me with a sword!' So again I aimed at him and hit him, but the blow proved futile again, and on that Abu Rafi` cried loudly and his wife got up. I came again and changed my voice as if I were a helper, and found Abu Rafi` lying straight on his back, so I drove the sword into his belly and bent on it till I heard the sound of a bone break. Then I came out, filled with astonishment and went to the staircase to descend, but I fell down from it and got my leg dislocated. I bandaged it and went to my companions limping. I said (to them), 'Go and tell Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) of this good news, but I will not leave (this place) till I hear the news of his (i.e. Abu Rafi`'s) death.' When dawn broke, an announcer of death got over the wall and announced, 'I convey to you the news of Abu Rafi`'s death.' I got up and proceeded without feeling any pain till I caught up with my companions before they reached the Prophet (ﷺ) to whom I conveyed the good news.
Hadith - 88
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: On the day of Uhud. the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "This is Gabriel holding the head of his horse and equipped with war material.
Hadith - 89
Narrated `Uqba bin Amir: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) offered the funeral prayers of the martyrs of Uhud eight years after (their death), as if bidding farewell to the living and the dead, then he ascended the pulpit and said, "I am your predecessor before you, and I am a witness on you, and your promised place to meet me will be Al-Haud (i.e. the Tank) (on the Day of Resurrection), and I am (now) looking at it from this place of mine. I am not afraid that you will worship others besides Allah, but I am afraid that worldly life will tempt you and cause you to compete with each other for it." That was the last look which I cast on Allah's Messenger (ﷺ).
Hadith - 90
Narrated Al-Bara: We faced the pagans on that day (of the battle of Uhud) and the Prophet (ﷺ) placed a batch of archers (at a special place) and appointed `Abdullah (bin Jubair) as their commander and said, "Do not leave this place; if you should see us conquering the enemy, do not leave this place, and if you should see them conquering us, do not (come to) help us," So, when we faced the enemy, they took to their heels till I saw their women running towards the mountain, lifting up their clothes from their legs, revealing their leg-bangles. The Muslims started saying, "The booty, the booty!" `Abdullah bin Jubair said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) had taken a firm promise from me not to leave this place." But his companions refused (to stay). So when they refused (to stay there), (Allah) confused them so that they could not know where to go, and they suffered seventy casualties. Abu Sufyan ascended a high place and said, "Is Muhammad present amongst the people?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Do not answer him." Abu Sufyan said, "Is the son of Abu Quhafa present among the people?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Do not answer him." `Abu Sufyan said, "Is the son of Al-Khattab amongst the people?" He then added, "All these people have been killed, for, were they alive, they would have replied." On that, `Umar could not help saying, "You are a liar, O enemy of Allah! Allah has kept what will make you unhappy." Abu Sufyan said, "Superior may be Hubal!" On that, the Prophet said (to his companions), "Reply to him." They asked, "What may we say?" He said, "Say: Allah is More Elevated and More Majestic!" Abu Sufyan said, "We have (the idol) Al-`Uzza, whereas you have no `Uzza!" The Prophet (ﷺ) said (to his companions), "Reply to him." They said, "What may we say?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Say: Allah is our Helper and you have no helper." Abu Sufyan said, "(This) day compensates for our loss at Badr and (in) the battle (the victory) is always undecided and shared in turns by the belligerents. You will see some of your dead men mutilated, but neither did I urge this action, nor am I sorry for it." Narrated Jabir: Some people took wine in the morning of the day of Uhud and were then killed as martyrs.
Hadith - 91
Narrated Sa`d bin Ibrahim: A meal was brought to `Abdur-Rahman bin `Auf while he was fasting. He said, "Mus`ab bin `Umar was martyred, and he was better than I, yet he was shrouded in a Burda (i.e. a sheet) so that, if his head was covered, his feet became naked, and if his feet were covered, his head became naked." `Abdur-Rahman added, "Hamza was martyred and he was better than 1. Then worldly wealth was bestowed upon us and we were given thereof too much. We are afraid that the reward of our deeds have been given to us in this life." `Abdur-Rahman then started weeping so much that he left the food.
Hadith - 92
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah: On the day of the battle of Uhud, a man came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said, "Can you tell me where I will be if I should get martyred?" The Prophet (ﷺ) replied, "In Paradise." The man threw away some dates he was carrying in his hand, and fought till he was martyred.
Hadith - 93
Narrated Khabbab bin Al-Art: We migrated in the company of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), seeking Allah's Pleasure. So our reward became due and sure with Allah. Some of us have been dead without enjoying anything of their rewards (here), and one of them was Mus'ab bin 'Umar who was martyred on the day of the battle of Uhud, and did not leave anything except a Namira (i.e. a sheet in which he was shrouded). If we covered his head with it, his feet became naked, and if we covered his feet with it, his head became naked. So the Prophet (ﷺ) said to us, "Cover his head with it and put some Idhkhir (i.e. a kind of grass) over his feet or throw Idhkhir over his feet." But some amongst us have got the fruits of their labor ripened, and they are collecting them.
Hadith - 94
Narrated Anas: His uncle (Anas bin An-Nadr) was absent from the battle of Badr and he said, "I was absent from the first battle of the Prophet (i.e. Badr battle), and if Allah should let me participate in (a battle) with the Prophet, Allah will see how strongly I will fight." So he encountered the day of Uhud battle. The Muslims fled and he said, "O Allah ! I appeal to You to excuse me for what these people (i.e. the Muslims) have done, and I am clear from what the pagans have done." Then he went forward with his sword and met Sad bin Mu'adh (fleeing), and asked him, "Where are you going, O Sad? I detect a smell of Paradise before Uhud." Then he proceeded on and was martyred. Nobody was able to recognize him till his sister recognized him by a mole on his body or by the tips of his fingers. He had over 80 wounds caused by stabbing, striking or shooting with arrows.
Hadith - 95
Narrated Zaid bin Thabit: When we wrote the Holy Qur'an, I missed one of the Verses of Surat-al-Ahzab which I used to hear Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) reciting. Then we searched for it and found it with Khuza`ima bin Thabit Al-Ansari. The Verse was: 'Among the Believers are men Who have been true to Their Covenant with Allah, Of them, some have fulfilled Their obligations to Allah (i.e. they have been Killed in Allah's Cause), And some of them are (still) waiting" (Surah 33: Ayah 23) So we wrote this in its place in the Qur'an.
Hadith - 96
Narrated Zaid bin Thabit: When the Prophet (ﷺ) set out for (the battle of) Uhud, some of those who had gone out with him, returned. The companions of the Prophet (ﷺ) were divided into two groups. One group said, "We will fight them (i.e. the enemy)," and the other group said, "We will not fight them." So there came the Divine Revelation: '(O Muslims!) Then what is the matter within you that you are divided. Into two parties about the hypocrites? Allah has cast them back (to disbelief) Because of what they have earned.' (Surah 4: Ayah 88) On that, the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "That is Taiba (i.e. the city of Medina) which clears one from one's sins as the fire expels the impurities of silver.
Hadith - 97
Narrated Jabir: This Verse: "When two of your parties almost decided to fall away..." was revealed in our connection, i.e. Bani Salama and Bani Haritha and I would not have liked that, if it was not revealed, for Allah said:  But Allah was their Protector.
Hadith - 98
Narrated Jabir: "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said to me, "Have you got married O Jabir?" I replied, "Yes." He asked "What, a virgin or a matron?" I replied, "Not a virgin but a matron." He said, "Why did you not marry a young girl who would have fondled with you?" I replied, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! My father was martyred on the day of Uhud and left nine (orphan) daughters who are my nine sisters; so I disliked to have another young girl of their age, but (I sought) an (elderly) woman who could comb their hair and look after them." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "You have done the right thing.
Hadith - 99
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah: That his father was martyred on the day of the battle of Uhud and was in debt and left six (orphan) daughters. Jabir, added, "When the season of plucking the dates came, I went to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and said, "You know that my father was martyred on the day of Uhud, and he was heavily in debt, and I would like that the creditors should see you." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Go and pile every kind of dates apart." I did so and called him (i.e. the Prophet (ﷺ) ). When the creditors saw him, they started claiming their debts from me then in such a harsh manner (as they had never done before). So when he saw their attitude, he went round the biggest heap of dates thrice, and then sat over it and said, 'O Jabir), call your companions (i.e. the creditors).' Then he kept on measuring (and giving) to the creditors (their due) till Allah paid all the debt of my father. I would have been satisfied to retain nothing of those dates for my sisters after Allah had paid the debts of my father. But Allah saved all the heaps (of dates), so that when I looked at the heap where the Prophet (ﷺ) had been sitting, it seemed as if a single date had not been taken away thereof.
Hadith - 100
Narrated Sa`d bin Abi Waqqas: I saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) on the day of the battle of Uhud accompanied by two men fighting on his behalf. They were dressed in white and were fighting as bravely as possible. I had never seen them before, nor did I see them later on.
Hadith - 101
Narrated Sa`d bin Abi Waqqas: The Prophet (ﷺ) took out a quiver (of arrows) for me on the day of Uhud and said, "Throw (arrows); let my father and mother be sacrificed for you.
Hadith - 102
Narrated Sa`d: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) mentioned both his father and mother for me on the day of the battle of Uhud.
Hadith - 103
Narrated Ibn Al Musaiyab: Sa`d bin Abi Waqqas said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) mentioned both his father and mother for me on the day of the battle of Uhud." He meant when the Prophet (ﷺ) said (to Sa`d) while the latter was fighting. "Let my father and mother be sacrificed for you.
Hadith - 104
Narrated `Ali: I have never heard the Prophet (ﷺ) mentioning both his father and mother for anybody other than Sa`d.
Hadith - 105
Narrated `Ali: I have never heard the Prophet (ﷺ) mentioning his father and mother for anybody other than Sa`d bin Malik. I heard him saying on the day of Uhud, "O Sa`d throw (arrows)! Let my father and mother be sacrificed for you.
Hadith - 106
Narrated Mu'tamir's father: `Uthman said that on the day of the battle of Uhud, none remained with the Prophet (ﷺ) but Talha and Sa`d.
Hadith - 107
Narrated As-Saib bin Yazid: I have been in the company of `Abdur-Rahman bin `Auf, Talha bin 'Ubaidullah, Al-Miqdad and Sa`d, and I heard none of them narrating anything from the Prophet (ﷺ) excepting the fact that I heard Talha narrating about the day of Uhud (battle).
Hadith - 108
Narrated Qais: I saw Talha's paralyzed hand with which he had protected the Prophet (ﷺ) on the day of Uhud.
Hadith - 109
Narrated Anas: When it was the day of Uhud, the people left the Prophet (ﷺ) while Abu Talha was in front of the Prophet (ﷺ) shielding him with his leather shield. Abu Talha was a skillful archer who used to shoot violently. He broke two or three arrow bows on that day. If a man carrying a quiver full of arrows passed by, the Prophet would say (to him), put (scatter) its contents for Abu Talha." The Prophet (ﷺ) would raise his head to look at the enemy, whereupon Abu Talha would say, "Let my father and mother be sacrificed for you ! Do not raise your head, lest an arrow of the enemy should hit you. (Let) my neck (be struck) rather than your neck." I saw `Aisha, the daughter of Abu Bakr, and Um Sulaim rolling up their dresses so that I saw their leg-bangles while they were carrying water skins on their backs and emptying them in the mouths of the (wounded) people. They would return to refill them and again empty them in the mouths of the (wounded) people. The sword fell from Abu Talha's hand twice or thrice (on that day).
Hadith - 110
Narrated `Aisha: When it was the day of Uhud, the pagans were defeated. Then Satan, Allah's Curse be upon him, cried loudly, "O Allah's Worshippers, beware of what is behind!" On that, the front files of the (Muslim) forces turned their backs and started fighting with the back files. Hudhaifa looked, and on seeing his father Al-Yaman, he shouted, "O Allah's Worshippers, my father, my father!" But by Allah, they did not stop till they killed him. Hudhaifa said, "May Allah forgive you." (The sub-narrator, `Urwa, said, "By Allah, Hudhaifa continued asking Allah's Forgiveness for the killers of his father till he departed to Allah (i.e. died).
Hadith - 111
Narrated `Uthman bin Mauhab: A man came to perform the Hajj to (Allah's) House. Seeing some people sitting, he said, "Who are these sitting people?" Somebody said, "They are the people of Quraish." He said, "Who is the old man?" They said, "Ibn `Umar." He went to him and said, "I want to ask you about something; will you tell me about it? I ask you with the respect due to the sanctity of this (Sacred) House, do you know that `Uthman bin `Affan fled on the day of Uhud?" Ibn `Umar said, "Yes." He said, "Do you know that he (i.e. `Uthman) was absent from the Badr (battle) and did not join it?" Ibn `Umar said, "Yes." He said, "Do you know that he failed to be present at the Ridwan Pledge of allegiance (i.e. Pledge of allegiance at Hudaibiya) and did not witness it?" Ibn `Umar replied, "Yes," He then said, "Allahu-Akbar!" Ibn `Umar said, "Come along; I will inform you and explain to you what you have asked. As for the flight (of `Uthman) on the day of Uhud, I testify that Allah forgave him. As regards his absence from the Badr (battle), he was married to the daughter of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and she was ill, so the Prophet (ﷺ) said to him, 'You will have such reward as a man who has fought the Badr battle will get, and will also have the same share of the booty.' As for his absence from the Ridwan Pledge of allegiance if there had been anybody more respected by the Meccans than `Uthman bin `Affan, the Prophet would surely have sent that man instead of `Uthman. So the Prophet (ﷺ) sent him (i.e. `Uthman to Mecca) and the Ridwan Pledge of allegiance took place after `Uthman had gone to Mecca. The Prophet raised his right hand saying. 'This is the hand of `Uthman,' and clapped it over his other hand and said, "This is for `Uthman.'" Ibn `Umar then said (to the man), "Go now, after taking this information.
Hadith - 112
Narrated Al-Bara' bin `Azib: The Prophet (ﷺ) appointed `Abdullah bin Jubair as the commander of the cavalry archers on the day of the battle of Uhud. Then they returned defeated, and that what is referred to by Allah's Statement: "And the Apostle (Muhammad) was in your rear calling you back."
Hadith - 113
Abu Talha said: I was amongst those who were overtaken by slumber until my sword fell from my hand on several occasions. The sword fell and I picked it up, and it fell again, and I picked it up.
Hadith - 114
Narrated Salim's father: That he heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), when raising his head from bowing of the first rak`a of the morning prayer, saying, "O Allah! Curse so-and-so and so-and-so" after he had said, "Allah hears him who sends his praises to Him. Our Lord, all the Praises are for you!" So Allah revealed:  "Not for you (O Muhammad!)...(till the end of Verse) they are indeed wrong-doers.
Hadith - 115
Salim bin `Abdullah said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to invoke evil upon Safwan bin Umaiya, Suhail bin `Amr and Al-Harith bin Hisham. So the Verse was revealed: "Not for you (O Muhammad!)...(till the end of Verse) For they are indeed wrong-doers.
Hadith - 116
Narrated Tha`laba bin Abi Malik: `Umar bin Al-Khattab distributed woolen clothes amongst some women of Medina, and a nice woolen garment remained. Some of those who were sitting with him, said, "O chief of the believers! Give it to the daughter of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) who is with you," and by that, they meant Um Kulthum, the daughter of `Ali. `Umar said, "Um Salit has got more right than she." Um Salit was amongst those Ansari women who had given the pledge of allegiance to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) . `Umar added, "She (i.e. Um Salit) used to carry the filled water skins for us on the day of the battle of Uhud.
Hadith - 117
Narrated Jafar bin `Amr bin Umaiya: I went out with 'Ubaidullah bin `Adi Al-Khiyar. When we reached Hims (i.e. a town in Syria), 'Ubaidullah bin `Adi said (to me), "Would you like to see Wahshi so that we may ask him about the killing of Hamza?" I replied, "Yes." Wahshi used to live in Hims. We enquired about him and somebody said to us, "He is that in the shade of his palace, as if he were a full water skin." So we went up to him, and when we were at a short distance from him, we greeted him and he greeted us in return. 'Ubaidullah was wearing his turban and Wahshi could not see except his eyes and feet. 'Ubaidullah said, "O Wahshi! Do you know me?" Wahshi looked at him and then said, "No, by Allah! But I know that `Adi bin Al-Khiyar married a woman called Um Qital, the daughter of Abu Al-Is, and she delivered a boy for him at Mecca, and I looked for a wet nurse for that child. (Once) I carried that child along with his mother and then I handed him over to her, and your feet resemble that child's feet." Then 'Ubaidullah uncovered his face and said (to Wahshi), "Will you tell us (the story of) the killing of Hamza?" Wahshi replied "Yes, Hamza killed Tuaima bin `Adi bin Al-Khiyar at Badr (battle) so my master, Jubair bin Mut`im said to me, 'If you kill Hamza in revenge for my uncle, then you will be set free." When the people set out (for the battle of Uhud) in the year of 'Ainain ('Ainain is a mountain near the mountain of Uhud, and between it and Uhud there is a valley) I went out with the people for the battle. When the army aligned for the fight, Siba' came out and said, 'Is there any (Muslim) to accept my challenge to a duel?' Hamza bin `Abdul Muttalib came out and said, 'O Siba'. O Ibn Um Anmar, the one who circumcises other ladies! Do you challenge Allah and His Apostle?' Then Hamza attacked and killed him, causing him to be non-extant like the bygone yesterday. I hid myself under a rock, and when he (i.e. Hamza) came near me, I threw my spear at him, driving it into his umbilicus so that it came out through his buttocks, causing him to die. When all the people returned to Mecca, I too returned with them. I stayed in (Mecca) till Islam spread in it (i.e. Mecca). Then I left for Taif, and when the people (of Taif) sent their messengers to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), I was told that the Prophet (ﷺ) did not harm the messengers; So I too went out with them till I reached Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). When he saw me, he said, 'Are you Wahshi?' I said, 'Yes.' He said, 'Was it you who killed Hamza?' I replied, 'What happened is what you have been told of.' He said, 'Can you hide your face from me?' So I went out when Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) died, and Musailamah Al-Kadhdhab appeared (claiming to be a prophet). I said, 'I will go out to Musailamah so that I may kill him, and make amends for killing Hamza. So I went out with the people (to fight Musailamah and his followers) and then famous events took place concerning that battle. Suddenly I saw a man (i.e. Musailamah) standing near a gap in a wall. He looked like an ash-colored camel and his hair was dishevelled. So I threw my spear at him, driving it into his chest in between his breasts till it passed out through his shoulders, and then an Ansari man attacked him and struck him on the head with a sword. `Abdullah bin `Umar said, 'A slave girl on the roof of a house said: Alas! The chief of the believers (i.e. Musailamah) has been killed by a black slave.
Hadith - 118
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (pointing to his broken canine tooth) said, "Allah's Wrath has become severe on the people who harmed His Prophet. Allah's Wrath has become severe on the man who is killed by the Apostle of Allah in Allah's Cause.
Hadith - 119
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: Allah's Wrath became severe on him whom the Prophet (ﷺ) had killed in Allah's Cause. Allah's Wrath became severe on the people who caused the face of Allah's Prophet to bleed.
Hadith - 120
Narrated Abu Hazim: That he heard Sahl bin Sa`d being asked about the wounds of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "By Allah, I know who washed the wounds of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and who poured water (for washing them), and with what he was treated." Sahl added, "Fatima, the daughter of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to wash the wounds, and `Ali bin Abi Talib used to pour water from a shield. When Fatima saw that the water aggravated the bleeding, she took a piece of a mat, burnt it, and inserted its ashes into the wound so that the blood was congealed (and bleeding stopped). His canine tooth got broken on that day, and face was wounded, and his helmet was broken on his head.
Hadith - 121
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: Allah's Wrath gets severe on a person killed by a prophet, and Allah's Wrath became severe on him who had caused the face of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) to bleed.
Hadith - 122
Narrated `Aisha: Regarding the Holy Verse: "Those who responded (To the call) of Allah And the Apostle (Muhammad), After being wounded, For those of them Who did good deeds And refrained from wrong, there is a great reward." (3.172) She said to `Urwa, "O my nephew! Your father, Az-Zubair and Abu Bakr were amongst them (i.e. those who responded to the call of Allah and the Apostle on the day (of the battle of Uhud). When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), suffered what he suffered on the day of Uhud and the pagans left, the Prophet (ﷺ) was afraid that they might return. So he said, 'Who will go on their (i.e. pagans') track?' He then selected seventy men from amongst them (for this purpose)." (The sub-narrator added, "Abu Bakr and Az-Zubair were amongst them).
Hadith - 123
Narrated Qatada: We do not know of any tribe amongst the 'Arab tribes who lost more martyrs than Al-Ansar, and they will have superiority on the Day of Resurrection. Anas bin Malik told us that seventy from the Ansar were martyred on the day of Uhud, and seventy on the day (of the battle of) Bir Ma'una, and seventy on the day of Al-Yamama. Anas added, "The battle of Bir Ma'una took place during the lifetime of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and the battle of Al-Yamama, during the caliphate of Abu Bakr, and it was the day when Musailamah Al-Kadhdhab was killed.
Hadith - 124
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to shroud two martyrs of Uhud in one sheet and then say, "Which of them knew Qur'an more?" When one of the two was pointed out, he would put him first in the grave. Then he said, "I will be a witness for them on the Day of Resurrection." He ordered them to be buried with their blood (on their bodies). Neither was the funeral prayer offered for them, nor were they washed. Jabir added, "When my father was martyred, I started weeping and uncovering his face. The companions of the Prophet (ﷺ) stopped me from doing so but the Prophet (ﷺ) did not stop me. Then the Prophet said, '(O Jabir.) don't weep over him, for the angels kept on covering him with their wings till his body was carried away (for burial).
Hadith - 125
Narrated Abu Musa: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I saw in a dream that I moved a sword and its blade got broken, and that symbolized the casualties which the believers suffered on the day of Uhud. Then I moved it again, and it became as perfect as it had been, and that symbolized the Conquest (of Mecca) which Allah helped us to achieve, and the union of all the believers. I (also) saw cows in the dream, and what Allah does is always beneficial. Those cows appeared to symbolize the faithful believers (who were martyred) on the day of Uhud.
Hadith - 126
Narrated Khabbab: We migrated with the Prophet (ﷺ) for Allah's Cause, so our reward became due with Allah. Some of us passed away (i.e. died) without enjoying anything from their reward, and one of them was Mus`ab bin `Umar who was killed (i.e. martyred) on the day of Uhud. He did not leave behind except a sheet of striped woolen cloth. If we covered his head with it, his feet became naked, and if we covered his feet with it, his head became naked. The Prophet (ﷺ) said to us, "Cover his head with it and put Idhkhir (i.e. a kind of grass) over his feet," or said, "Put some Idhkhir over his feet." But some of us have got their fruits ripened, and they are collecting them.
Hadith - 127
Narrated Anas: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "This is a mountain that loves us and is loved by us.
Hadith - 128
Narrated Anas bin Malik: When the mountain of Uhud appeared before Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) he said, "This IS a mountain that loves us and is loved by us. O, Allah! Abraham made Mecca a Sanctuary, and I have made Medina (i.e. the area between its two mountains) a Sanctuary as well.
Hadith - 129
Narrated `Uqba: One day the Prophet (ﷺ) went out and offered the (funeral) prayer for the people (i.e. martyrs) of Uhud as he used to offer a funeral prayer for any dead person, and then (after returning) he ascended the pulpit and said, "I am your predecessor before you, and I am a witness upon you, and I am looking at my Tank just now, and I have been given the keys of the treasures of the world (or the keys of the world). By Allah, I am not afraid that you will worship others besides Allah after me, but I am afraid that you will compete with each other for (the pleasures of) this world.
Hadith - 130
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) sent a Sariya of spies and appointed `Asim bin Thabit, the grandfather of `Asim bin `Umar bin Al-Khattab, as their leader. So they set out, and when they reached (a place) between 'Usfan and Mecca, they were mentioned to one of the branch tribes of Bani Hudhail called Lihyan. So, about one-hundred archers followed their traces till they (i.e. the archers) came to a journey station where they (i.e. `Asim and his companions) had encamped and found stones of dates they had brought as journey food from Medina. The archers said, "These are the dates of Medina," and followed their traces till they took them over. When `Asim and his companions were not able to go ahead, they went up a high place, and their pursuers encircled them and said, "You have a covenant and a promise that if you come down to us, we will not kill anyone of you." `Asim said, "As for me, I will never come down on the security of an infidel. O Allah! Inform Your Prophet about us." So they fought with them till they killed `Asim along with seven of his companions with arrows, and there remained Khubaib, Zaid and another man to whom they gave a promise and a covenant. So when the infidels gave them the covenant and promise, they came down. When they captured them, they opened the strings of their arrow bows and tied them with it. The third man who was with them said, "This is the first breach in the covenant," and refused to accompany them. They dragged him and tried to make him accompany them, but he refused, and they killed him. Then they proceeded on taking Khubaib and Zaid till they sold them in Mecca. The sons of Al-Harith bin `Amr bin Naufal bought Khubaib. It was Khubaib who had killed Al-Harith bin `Amr on the day of Badr. Khubaib stayed with them for a while as a captive till they decided unanimously to kill him. (At that time) Khubaib borrowed a razor from one of the daughters of Al-Harith to shave his pubic hair. She gave it to him. She said later on, "I was heedless of a little baby of mine, who moved towards Khubaib, and when it reached him, he put it on his thigh. When I saw it, I got scared so much that Khubaib noticed my distress while he was carrying the razor in his hand. He said 'Are you afraid that I will kill it? Allah willing, I will never do that,' " Later on she used to say, "I have never seen a captive better than Khubaib Once I saw him eating from a bunch of grapes although at that time no fruits were available at Mecca, and he was fettered with iron chains, and in fact, it was nothing but food bestowed upon him by Allah." So they took him out of the Sanctuary (of Mecca) to kill him. He said, "Allow me to offer a two-rak`at prayer." Then he went to them and said, "Had I not been afraid that you would think I was afraid of death, I would have prayed for a longer time." So it was Khubaib who first set the tradition of praying two rak`at before being executed. He then said, "O Allah! Count them one by one," and added, 'When I am being martyred as a Muslim, I do not care in what way I receive my death for Allah's Sake, because this death is in Allah's Cause. If He wishes, He will bless the cut limbs." Then `Uqba bin Al-Harith got up and martyred him. The narrator added: The Quraish (infidels) sent some people to `Asim in order to bring a part of his body so that his death might be known for certain, for `Asim had killed one of their chiefs on the day of Badr. But Allah sent a cloud of wasps which protected his body from their messengers who could not harm his body consequently.
Hadith - 131
Narrated Jabir: The person who killed Khubaib was Abu Sirwa' (i.e. `Uqba bin Al-Harith).
Hadith - 132
Narrated `Abdul `Aziz: Anas said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) sent seventy men, called Al-Qurra 'for some purpose. The two groups of Bani Sulaim called Ri'l and Dhakwan, appeared to them near a well called Bir Ma'una. The people (i.e. Al-Qurra) said, 'By Allah, we have not come to harm you, but we are passing by you on our way to do something for the Prophet.' But (the infidels) killed them. The Prophet (ﷺ) therefore invoked evil upon them for a month during the morning prayer. That was the beginning of Al Qunut and we used not to say Qunut before that." A man asked Anas about Al-Qunut, "Is it to be said after the Bowing (in the prayer) or after finishing the Recitation (i.e. before Bowing)?" Anas replied, "No, but (it is to be said) after finishing the Recitation.
Hadith - 133
Narrated Anas: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said Al-Qunut for one month after the posture of Bowing, invoking evil upon some 'Arab tribes.
Hadith - 134
Narrated Anas bin Malik: (The tribes of) Ri'l, Dhakwan, 'Usaiya and Bani Lihyan asked Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) to provide them with some men to support them against their enemy. He therefore provided them with seventy men from the Ansar whom we used to call Al-Qurra' in their lifetime. They used to collect wood by daytime and pray at night. When they were at the well of Ma'una, the infidels killed them by betraying them. When this news reached the Prophet (ﷺ) , he said Al-Qunut for one month In the morning prayer, invoking evil upon some of the 'Arab tribes, upon Ri'l, Dhakwan, 'Usaiya and Bani Libyan. We used to read a verse of the Qur'an revealed in their connection, but later the verse was cancelled. It was: "convey to our people on our behalf the information that we have met our Lord, and He is pleased with us, and has made us pleased." (Anas bin Malik added: ) Allah's Prophet said Qunut for one month in the morning prayer, invoking evil upon some of the 'Arab tribes (namely), Ri'l, Dhakwan, Usaiya, and Bani Libyan. (Anas added:) Those seventy Ansari men were killed at the well of Mauna.
Hadith - 135
Narrated Anas: That the Prophet (ﷺ) sent his uncle, the brother of Um Sulaim at the head of seventy riders. The chief of the pagans, 'Amir bin at-Tufail proposed three suggestions (to the Prophet (ﷺ) ) saying, "Choose one of three alternatives: (1) that the bedouins will be under your command and the townspeople will be under my command; (2) or that I will be your successor, (3) or otherwise I will attack you with two thousand from Bani Ghatafan." But 'Amir was infected with plague in the House of Um so-and-so. He said, "Shall I stay in the house of a lady from the family of so-and-so after having a (swelled) gland like that she-camel? Get me my horse." So he died on the back of his horse. Then Haram, the brother of Um Sulaim and a lame man along with another man from so-and-so (tribe) went towards the pagans (i.e. the tribe of 'Amir). Haram said (to his companions), "Stay near to me, for I will go to them. If they (i.e. infidels) should give me protection, you will be near to me, and if they should kill me, then you should go back to your companions. Then Haram went to them and said, "Will you give me protection so as to convey the message of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) ?" So, he started talking to them' but they signalled to a man (to kill him) and he went behind him and stabbed him (with a spear). He (i.e. Haram) said, "Allahu Akbar! I have succeeded, by the Lord of the Ka`ba!" The companion of Haram was pursued by the infidels, and then they (i.e. Haram's companions) were all killed except the lame man who was at the top of a mountain. Then Allah revealed to us a verse that was among the cancelled ones later on. It was: 'We have met our Lord and He is pleased with us and has made us pleased.' (After this event) the Prophet (ﷺ) invoked evil on the infidels every morning for 30 days. He invoked evil upon the (tribes of) Ri'l, Dhakwan, Bani Lihyan and Usaiya who disobeyed Allah and His Apostle.
Hadith - 136
Narrated Anas bin Malik: That when Haram bin Milhan, his uncle was stabbed on the day of Bir Ma'una he sprinkled his blood over his face and his head this way and then said, "I have succeeded, by the Lord of the Ka`ba.
Hadith - 137
Narrated `Aisha: Abu Bakr asked the Prophet (ﷺ) to allow him to go out (of Mecca) when he was greatly annoyed (by the infidels). But the Prophet (ﷺ) said to him, "Wait." Abu Bakr said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Do you hope that you will be allowed (to migrate)?" Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) replied, "I hope so." So Abu Bakr waited for him, till one day Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) came at noon time and addressed him saying, "Let whoever is present with you, now leave you." Abu Bakr said, "None is present but my two daughters." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Have you noticed that I have been allowed to go out (to migrate)?" Abu Bakr said, "O Allah's Apostle, I would like to accompany you." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "You will accompany me." Abu Bakr said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! I have got two she-camels which I had prepared and kept ready for (our) going out." So he gave one of the two (she-camels) to the Prophet (ﷺ) and it was Al-Jad`a. They both rode and proceeded till they reached the Cave at the mountain of Thaur where they hid themselves. Amir bin Fuhaira was the slave of `Abdullah bin at-Tufail bin Sakhbara, `Aisha's brother from her mother's side. Abu Bakr had a milch she-camel. Amir used to go with it (i.e. the milch she-camel) in the afternoon and come back to them before noon by setting out towards them in the early morning when it was still dark and then he would take it to the pasture so that none of the shepherds would be aware of his job. When the Prophet (and Abu Bakr) went away (from the Cave), he (i.e. 'Amir) too went along with them and they both used to make him ride at the back of their camels in turns till they reached Medina. 'Amir bin Fuhaira was martyred on the day of Bir Ma'una. Narrated `Urwa: When those (Muslims) at Bir Ma'una were martyred and `Amr bin Umaiya Ad-Damri was taken prisoner, 'Amir bin at-Tufail, pointing at a killed person, asked `Amr, "Who is this?" `Amr bin Umaiya said to him, "He is 'Amir bin Fuhaira." 'Amir bin at-Tufail said, "I saw him lifted to the sky after he was killed till I saw the sky between him and the earth, and then he was brought down upon the earth. Then the news of the killed Muslims reached the Prophet (ﷺ) and he announced the news of their death saying, "Your companions (of Bir Ma'una) have been killed, and they have asked their Lord saying, 'O our Lord! Inform our brothers about us as we are pleased with You and You are pleased with us." So Allah informed them (i.e. the Prophet (ﷺ) and his companions) about them (i.e. martyrs of Bir Mauna). On that day, `Urwa bin Asma bin As-Salt who was one of them, was killed, and `Urwa (bin Az-Zubair) was named after `Urwa bin Asma and Mundhir (bin Az-Zubair) was named after Mundhir bin `Amr (who had also been martyred on that day).
Hadith - 138
Narrated Anas: The Prophet (ﷺ) said Al-Qunut after Bowing (i.e. Ar-Ruku') for one month, invoking evil upon (the tribes of) Ri'l and Dhakwan. He used to say, "Usaiya disobeyed Allah and His Apostle."
Hadith - 139
Narrated Anas bin Malik: The Prophet (ﷺ) invoked evil upon those (people) who killed his companions at Bir Mauna for 30 days (in the morning prayer). He invoked evil upon (tribes of) Ri'l, Lihyan and Usaiya who disobeyed Allah and His Apostle. Allah revealed a Qur'anic Verse to His Prophet regarding those who had been killed, i.e. the Muslims killed at Bir Ma'una, and we recited the Verse till later it was cancelled. (The Verse was:) 'Inform our people that we have met our Lord, and He is pleased with us, and we are pleased with Him.'
Hadith - 140
Narrated `Asim Al-Ahwal: I asked Anas bin Malik regarding Al-Qunut during the prayer. Anas replied, "Yes (Al-Qunut was said by the Prophet (ﷺ) in the prayer)." I said, "Is it before Bowing or after Bowing?" Anas replied, "(It was said) before (Bowing)." I said, "So-and-so informed me that you told him that it was said after Bowing." Anas replied, "He was mistaken, for Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said Al-Qunut after Bowing for one month. The Prophet (ﷺ) had sent some people called Al-Qurra who were seventy in number, to some pagan people who had concluded a peace treaty with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) . But those who had concluded the treaty with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) violated the treaty (and martyred all the seventy men). So Allah's Apostle said Al-Qunut after Bowing (in the prayer) for one month, invoking evil upon them.
Hadith - 141
Narrated Ibn `Umar: That the Prophet (ﷺ) inspected him on the day of Uhud while he was fourteen years old, and the Prophet (ﷺ) did not allow him to take part in the battle. He was inspected again by the Prophet (ﷺ) on the day of Al-Khandaq (i.e. battle of the Trench) while he was fifteen years old, and the Prophet (ﷺ) allowed him to take Part in the battle.
Hadith - 142
Narrated Sahl bin Sa`d: We were with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) in the Trench, and some were digging the trench while we were carrying the earth on our shoulders. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, 'O Allah! There is no life except the life of the Hereafter, so please forgive the Emigrants and the Ansar.
Hadith - 143
Narrated Anas: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) went out towards the Khandaq (i.e. Trench) and saw the Emigrants and the Ansar digging the trench in the cold morning. They had no slaves to do that (work) for them. When the Prophet saw their hardship and hunger, he said, 'O Allah! The real life is the life of the Hereafter, so please forgive Ansar and the Emigrants." They said in reply to him, "We are those who have given the Pledge of allegiances to Muhammad for to observe Jihad as long as we live.
Hadith - 144
Narrated Anas: Al-Muhajirun (i.e. the Emigrants) and the Ansar were digging the trench around Medina and were carrying the earth on their backs while saying, "We are those who have given the pledge of allegiance to Muhammad for Islam as long as we live." The Prophet (ﷺ) said in reply to their saying, "O Allah! There is no goodness except the goodness of the Hereafter; so please grant Your Blessing to the Ansar and the Emigrants." The people used to bring a handful of barley, and a meal used to be prepared thereof by cooking it with a cooking material (i.e. oil, fat and butter having a change in color and smell) and it used to be presented to the people (i.e. workers) who were hungry, and it used to stick to their throats and had a nasty smell.
Hadith - 145
Narrated Jabir: We were digging (the trench) on the day of (Al-Khandaq ( i.e. Trench )) and we came across a big solid rock. We went to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said, "Here is a rock appearing across the trench." He said, "I am coming down." Then he got up, and a stone was tied to his belly for we had not eaten anything for three days. So the Prophet (ﷺ) took the spade and struck the big solid rock and it became like sand. I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Allow me to go home." (When the Prophet (ﷺ) allowed me) I said to my wife, "I saw the Prophet (ﷺ) in a state that I cannot treat lightly. Have you got something (for him to eat?" She replied, "I have barley and a she goat." So I slaughtered the she-kid and she ground the barley; then we put the meat in the earthenware cooking pot. Then I came to the Prophet (ﷺ) when the dough had become soft and fermented and (the meat in) the pot over the stone trivet had nearly been well-cooked, and said, "I have got a little food prepared, so get up O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), you and one or two men along with you (for the food)." The Prophet (ﷺ) asked, "How much is that food?" I told him about it. He said, "It is abundant and good. Tell your wife not to remove the earthenware pot from the fire and not to take out any bread from the oven till I reach there." Then he said (to all his companions), "Get up." So the Muhajirin (i.e. Emigrants) and the Ansar got up. When I came to my wife, I said, "Allah's Mercy be upon you! The Prophet came along with the Muhajirin and the Ansar and those who were present with them." She said, "Did the Prophet (ﷺ) ask you (how much food you had)?" I replied, "Yes." Then the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Enter and do not throng." The Prophet (ﷺ) started cutting the bread (into pieces) and put the cooked meat over it. He covered the earthenware pot and the oven whenever he took something out of them. He would give the food to his companions and take the meat out of the pot. He went on cutting the bread and scooping the meat (for his companions) till they all ate their fill, and even then, some food remained. Then the Prophet (ﷺ) said (to my wife), "Eat and present to others as the people are struck with hunger.
Hadith - 146
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah: When the Trench was dug, I saw the Prophet (ﷺ) in the state of severe hunger. So I returned to my wife and said, "Have you got anything (to eat), for I have seen Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) in a state of severe hunger." She brought out for me, a bag containing one Sa of barley, and we had a domestic she animal (i.e. a kid) which I slaughtered then, and my wife ground the barley and she finished at the time I finished my job (i.e. slaughtering the kid). Then I cut the meat into pieces and put it in an earthenware (cooking) pot, and returned to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) . My wife said, "Do not disgrace me in front of Allah's Apostle and those who are with him." So I went to him and said to him secretly, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! I have slaughtered a she-animal (i.e. kid) of ours, and we have ground a Sa of barley which was with us. So please come, you and another person along with you." The Prophet (ﷺ) raised his voice and said, "O people of Trench ! Jabir has prepared a meal so let us go." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said to me, "Don't put down your earthenware meat pot (from the fireplace) or bake your dough till I come." So I came (to my house) and Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) too, came, proceeding before the people. When I came to my wife, she said, "May Allah do so-and-so to you." I said, "I have told the Prophet (ﷺ) of what you said." Then she brought out to him (i.e. the Prophet (ﷺ) the dough, and he spat in it and invoked for Allah's Blessings in it. Then he proceeded towards our earthenware meat-pot and spat in it and invoked for Allah's Blessings in it. Then he said (to my wife). Call a lady-baker to bake along with you and keep on taking out scoops from your earthenware meat-pot, and do not put it down from its fireplace." They were one-thousand (who took their meals), and by Allah they all ate, and when they left the food and went away, our earthenware pot was still bubbling (full of meat) as if it had not decreased, and our dough was still being baked as if nothing had been taken from it.
Hadith - 147
Narrated `Aisha: As regards the following Qur'anic Verse: "When they came on you from above and from below you (from east and west of the valley) and when the eyes grew wild and the hearts reached up to the throats..." (Surah 33: Ayah 10) That happened on the day of Al-Khandaq (i.e. Trench).
Hadith - 148
Narrated Al-Bara: The Prophet (ﷺ) was carrying earth on the day of Al-Khandaq till his `Abdomen was fully covered with dust, and he was saying, "By Allah, without Allah we would not have been guided, neither would we have given in charity, nor would we have prayed. So (O Allah), please send Sakina (i.e. calmness) upon us, and make our feet firm if we meet the enemy as the enemy have rebelled against us, and if they intended affliction, (i.e. want to frighten us and fight against us then we would not flee but withstand them)." The Prophet (ﷺ) used to raise his voice saying, "Abaina! Abaina! (i.e. would not, we would not).
Hadith - 149
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I have been made victorious by As-Saba (i.e. an easterly wind) and the `Ad nation was destroyed by Ad-Dabur (i.e. a westerly wind)."
Hadith - 150
Narrated Al-Bara: When it was the day of Al-Ahzab (i.e. the clans) and Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) dug the trench, I saw him carrying earth out of the trench till dust made the skin of his `Abdomen out of my sight and he was a hairy man. I heard him reciting the poetic verses composed by Ibn Rawaha while he was carrying the earth, "O Allah! Without You we would not have been guided, nor would we have given in charity, nor would we have prayed. So, (O Allah), please send Sakina (i.e. calmness) upon us and make our feet firm if we meet the enemy, as they have rebelled against us. And if they intend affliction (i.e. want to frighten us, and fight against us) then we would not (flee but withstand them)." The Prophet (ﷺ) would then prolong his voice at the last words.
Hadith - 151
Narrated Ibn `Umar: The first day (i.e. Ghazwa) I participated in, was the day of Al-Khandaq (i.e. Trench).
Hadith - 152
Narrated `Ikrima bin Khalid: Ibn `Umar said, "I went to Hafsa while water was dribbling from her twined braids. I said, 'The condition of the people is as you see, and no authority has been given to me.' Hafsa said, (to me), 'Go to them, and as they (i.e. the people) are waiting for you, and I am afraid your absence from them will produce division amongst them.' " So Hafsa did not leave Ibn `Umar till we went to them. When the people differed. Muawiya addressed the people saying, "'If anybody wants to say anything in this matter of the Caliphate, he should show up and not conceal himself, for we are more rightful to be a Caliph than he and his father." On that, Habib bin Maslama said (to Ibn `Umar), "Why don't you reply to him (i.e. Muawiya)?" `Abdullah bin `Umar said, "I untied my garment that was going round my back and legs while I was sitting and was about to say, 'He who fought against you and against your father for the sake of Islam, is more rightful to be a Caliph,' but I was afraid that my statement might produce differences amongst the people and cause bloodshed, and my statement might be interpreted not as I intended. (So I kept quiet) remembering what Allah has prepared in the Gardens of Paradise (for those who are patient and prefer the Hereafter to this worldly life)." Habib said, "You did what kept you safe and secure (i.e. you were wise in doing so).
Hadith - 153
Narrated Sulaiman bin Surad: On the day of Al-Ahzab (i.e. clans) the Prophet (ﷺ) said, (After this battle) we will go to attack them(i.e. the infidels) and they will not come to attack us.
Hadith - 154
Narrated Sulaiman bin Surad: When the clans were driven away, I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "From now onwards we will go to attack them (i.e. the infidels) and they will not come to attack us, but we will go to them.
Hadith - 155
Narrated `Ali: On the day of Al-Khandaq (i.e. Trench), the Prophet (ﷺ) said '(Let) Allah fill their (i.e. the infidels') houses and graves with fire just as they have prevented us from offering the Middle Prayer (i.e. `Asr prayer) till the sun had set.
Hadith - 156
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah: `Umar bin Al-Khattab came on the day of Al-Khandaq after the sun had set and he was abusing the infidels of Quraish saying, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! I was unable to offer the (`Asr) prayer till the sun was about to set." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "By Allah, I have not offered this (i.e. `Asr) prayer." So we came down along with the Prophet (ﷺ) to Buthan where he performed ablution for the prayer and then we performed the ablution for it. Then he offered the `Asr prayer after the sun had set, and after it he offered the Maghrib prayer.
Hadith - 157
Narrated Jabir: On the day of Al-Ahzab (i.e. clans), Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, 'Who will bring us the news of the people (i.e. the clans of Quraish infidels)?" Az-Zubair said, "I." The Prophet (ﷺ) again said, "Who will bring us the news of the people?" Az-Zubair said, "I." The Prophet (ﷺ) again said, "Who will bring us the news of the people?" Az-Zubair said, "I." The Prophet (ﷺ) then said, "Every prophet has his Hawari (i.e. disciple - special helper); my disciple is Az-Zubair."
Hadith - 158
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to say, "None has the right to be worshipped except Allah Alone (Who) honored His Warriors and made His Slave victorious, and He (Alone) defeated the (infidel) clans; so there is nothing after Him.
Hadith - 159
Narrated `Abdullah bin Abi `Aufa: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) invoked evil upon the clans saying, "Allah, the Revealer of the Holy Book (i.e. the Qur'an), the Quick Taker of the accounts! Please defeat the clans. O Allah! Defeat them and shake them."
Hadith - 160
Narrated `Abdullah: Whenever Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) returned from a Ghazwa, Hajj or `Umra, he used to start (saying), "Allahu-Akbar," thrice and then he would say, "None has the right to be worshipped except Allah alone Who has no partners. To Him belongs the Kingdom, all praises are for Him, and He is able to do all things (i.e. Omnipotent). We are returning with repentance (to Allah) worshipping, prostrating, and praising our Lord. Allah has fulfilled His Promise, made His Slave victorious, and He (Alone) defeated the clans (of infidels).
Hadith - 161
Narrated `Aisha: When the Prophet (ﷺ) returned from Al-Khandaq (i.e. Trench) and laid down his arms and took a bath, Gabriel came and said (to the Prophet (ﷺ) ), You have laid down your arms? By Allah, we angels have not laid them down yet. So set out for them." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Where to go?" Gabriel said, "Towards this side," pointing towards Banu Quraiza. So the Prophet (ﷺ) went out towards them.
Hadith - 162
Narrated Anas: As if I am just now looking at the dust rising in the street of Banu Ghanm (in Medina) because of the marching of Gabriel's regiment when Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) set out to Banu Quraiza (to attack them).
Hadith - 163
Narrated Ibn `Umar: On the day of Al-Ahzab (i.e. Clans) the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "None of you Muslims) should offer the `Asr prayer but at Banu Quraiza's place." The `Asr prayer became due for some of them on the way. Some of those said, "We will not offer it till we reach it, the place of Banu Quraiza," while some others said, "No, we will pray at this spot, for the Prophet (ﷺ) did not mean that for us." Later on It was mentioned to the Prophet (ﷺ) and he did not berate any of the two groups.
Hadith - 164
Narrated Anas: Some (of the Ansar) used to present date palm trees to the Prophet (ﷺ) till Banu Quraiza and Banu An-Nadir were conquered (then he returned to the people their date palms). My people ordered me to ask the Prophet (ﷺ) to return some or all the date palms they had given to him, but the Prophet (ﷺ) had given those trees to Um Aiman. On that, Um Aiman came and put the garment around my neck and said, "No, by Him except Whom none has the right to be worshipped, he will not return those trees to you as he (i.e. the Prophet (ﷺ) ) has given them to me." The Prophet (ﷺ) go said (to her), "Return those trees and I will give you so much (instead of them)." But she kept on refusing, saying, "No, by Allah," till he gave her ten times the number of her date palms.
Hadith - 165
Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri: The people of (Banu) Quraiza agreed to accept the verdict of Sa`d bin Mu`adh. So the Prophet (ﷺ) sent for Sa`d, and the latter came (riding) a donkey and when he approached the Mosque, the Prophet (ﷺ) said to the Ansar, "Get up for your chief or for the best among you." Then the Prophet (ﷺ) said (to Sa`d)." These (i.e. Banu Quraiza) have agreed to accept your verdict." Sa`d said, "Kill their (men) warriors and take their offspring as captives, "On that the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "You have judged according to Allah's Judgment," or said, "according to the King's judgment.
Hadith - 166
Narrated `Aisha: Sa`d was wounded on the day of Khandaq (i.e. Trench) when a man from Quraish, called Hibban bin Al-`Ariqa hit him (with an arrow). The man was Hibban bin Qais from (the tribe of) Bani Mais bin 'Amir bin Lu'ai who shot an arrow at Sa`d's medial arm vein (or main artery of the arm). The Prophet (ﷺ) pitched a tent (for Sa`d) in the Mosque so that he might be near to the Prophet (ﷺ) to visit. When the Prophet returned from the (battle) of Al-Khandaq (i.e. Trench) and laid down his arms and took a bath Gabriel came to him while he (i.e. Gabriel) was shaking the dust off his head, and said, "You have laid down the arms?" By Allah, I have not laid them down. Go out to them (to attack them)." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Where?" Gabriel pointed towards Bani Quraiza. So Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) went to them (i.e. Banu Quraiza) (i.e. besieged them). They then surrendered to the Prophet's judgment but he directed them to Sa`d to give his verdict concerning them. Sa`d said, "I give my judgment that their warriors should be killed, their women and children should be taken as captives, and their properties distributed." Narrated Hisham: My father informed me that `Aisha said, "Sa`d said, "O Allah! You know that there is nothing more beloved to me than to fight in Your Cause against those who disbelieved Your Apostle and turned him out (of Mecca). O Allah! I think you have put to an end the fight between us and them (i.e. Quraish infidels). And if there still remains any fight with the Quraish (infidels), then keep me alive till I fight against them for Your Sake. But if you have brought the war to an end, then let this wound burst and cause my death thereby.' So blood gushed from the wound. There was a tent in the Mosque belonging to Banu Ghifar who were surprised by the blood flowing towards them . They said, 'O people of the tent! What is this thing which is coming to us from your side?' Behold! Blood was flowing profusely out of Sa`d's wound. Sa`d then died because of that.
Hadith - 167
Narrated Al-Bara: The Prophet (ﷺ) said to Hassan, "Abuse them (with your poems), and Gabriel is with you (i.e. supports you)." (Through another group of sub narrators) Al-Bara bin Azib said, "On the day of Quraiza's (besiege), Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said to Hassan bin Thabit, 'Abuse them (with your poems), and Gabriel is with you (i.e. supports you).'"
Hadith - 168
Al-Bara' bin `Azib said (through another chain of sub-narrators): "On the day of Quraiza's (siege), Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said to Hassan bin Thabit, 'Abuse them (with your poems), and Jibril is with you.