Hadith - 169
Narrated Jabir bin Abdullah: The Prophet (ﷺ) led his Companions in the Fear Prayer in the seventh Ghazwa, i.e. the Ghazwa of Dhat-ur-Riqa. Ibn Abbas said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) offered the Fear Prayer at a place called Dhi-Qarad."
Hadith - 170
Jabir said that the Prophet (ﷺ) led the people in the Fear Prayer on the day of Muharib and Tha'laba (i.e. the day of the battle of Dhat-ur-Riqa).
Hadith - 171
Jabir added: "The Prophet (ﷺ) set out for the battle of Dhat-ur-Riqa' at a place called Nakhl and he met a group of people from Ghatafan, but there was no clash (between them); the people were afraid of each other and the Prophet (ﷺ) offered the two rak'at of the Fear prayer."
Narrated Salama: "I fought in the company of the Prophet (ﷺ) on the day of al-Qarad."
Hadith - 172
Narrated Abu Burda: Abu Musa said, "We went out in the company of the Prophet (ﷺ) for a Ghazwa and we were six persons having one camel which we rode in rotation.
So, (due to excessive walking) our feet became thin and my feet became thin and my nail dropped, and we used to wrap our feet with the pieces of cloth, and for this reason, the Ghazwa was named Dhat-ur-Riqa as we wrapped our feet with rags."
When Abu Musa narrated this (Hadith), he felt regretful to do so and said, as if he disliked to have disclosed a good deed of his.
Hadith - 173
Narrated Salih bin Khawwat: Concerning those who witnessed the Fear Prayer that was performed in the battle of Dhat-ur-Riqa' in the company of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ): One batch lined up behind him while another batch (lined up) facing the enemy.
The Prophet (ﷺ) led the batch that was with him in one rak`a, and he stayed in the standing posture while that batch completed their (two rak`at) prayer by themselves and went away, lining in the face of the enemy, while the other batch came and he (i.e. the Prophet) offered his remaining rak`a with them, and then, kept on sitting till they completed their prayer by themselves, and he then finished his prayer with Taslim along with them.
Hadith - 174
Narrated Ibn Az-Zubair: Jabir said, "We were with the Prophet (ﷺ) at Nakhl," and then he mentioned the Fear prayer.
Narrated Al-Qasim bin Muhammad: The Prophet (ﷺ) offered the Fear prayer in the Ghazwa of Banu Anmar.
Hadith - 175
Narrated Sahl bin Abi Hathma (describing the Fear prayer): The Imam stands up facing the Qibla and one batch of them (i.e. the army) (out of the two) prays along with him and the other batch faces the enemy.
The Imam offers one rak`a with the first batch, then they themselves stand up alone and offer one bowing and two prostrations while they are still in their place, and then go away to relieve the second batch, and the second batch comes (and takes the place of the first batch in the prayer behind the Imam) and he offers the second rak`a with them.
So he completes his two-rak`at and then the second batch bows and prostrates two prostrations (i.e. complete their second rak`a and thus all complete their prayer).
(This hadith has also been narrated through two other chain by Sahl bin Abi Hathma).
Hadith - 176
Narrated Ibn `Umar: I took part in a Ghazwa towards Najd along with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and we clashed with the enemy, and we lined up for them.
Hadith - 177
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) led the Fear-prayer with one of the two batches of the army while the other (batch) faced the enemy.
Then the first batch went away and took places of their companions (i.e. second batch) and the second batch came and he led his second rak`a with them.
Then he (i.e. the Prophet (ﷺ)) finished his prayer with Taslim and then each of the two batches got up and completed their remaining one rak`a.
Hadith - 178
Narrated Sinan and Abu Salama: Jabir mentioned that he had participated in a Ghazwa towards Najd in the company of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ).
Hadith - 179
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah: That he fought in a Ghazwa towards Najd along with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and when Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) returned, he too, returned along with him.
The time of the afternoon nap overtook them when they were in a valley full of thorny trees.
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) dismounted and the people dispersed amongst the thorny trees, seeking the shade of the trees. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) took shelter under a Samura tree and hung his sword on it.
We slept for a while when Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) suddenly called us, and we went to him, to find a bedouin sitting with him.
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, 'This (bedouin) took my sword out of its sheath while I was asleep. When I woke up, the naked sword was in his hand and he said to me, "Who can save you from me?" I replied, "Allah." Now here he is sitting.'
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) did not punish him (for that).
Hadith - 180
(Through another group of narrators) Jabir said: "We were in the company of the Prophet (ﷺ) (during the battle of) Dhat-ur-Riqa', and we came across a shady tree and we left it for the Prophet (to take rest under its shade).
A man from the pagans came while the Prophet's sword was hanging on the tree. He took it out of its sheath secretly and said (to the Prophet (ﷺ)), "Are you afraid of me?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "No." He said, "Who can save you from me?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Allah."
The companions of the Prophet (ﷺ) threatened him, then the Iqama for the prayer was announced and the Prophet (ﷺ) offered a two rak`at Fear prayer with one of the two batches, and that batch went aside and he offered two rak`at with the other batch.
So the Prophet (ﷺ) offered four rak`at but the people offered two rak`at only."
(The subnarrator) Abu Bishr added, "The man was Ghaurath bin Al-Harith and the battle was waged against Muharib Khasafa."
Hadith - 181
Jabir added, "We were with the Prophet (ﷺ) at Nakhl and he offered the Fear prayer."
Abu Huraira said, "I offered the Fear prayer with the Prophet (ﷺ) during the Ghazwa (i.e. the battle) of Najd." Abu Huraira came to the Prophet (ﷺ) during the day of Khaibar.
Hadith - 182
Narrated Ibn Muhairiz: I entered the Mosque and saw Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri and sat beside him and asked him about Al-Azl (i.e. coitus interruptus).
Abu Sa`id said, 'We went out with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) for the Ghazwa of Banu Al-Mustaliq and we received captives from among the Arab captives, and we desired women and celibacy became hard on us and we loved to do coitus interruptus.
So when we intended to do coitus interruptus, we said, "How can we do coitus interruptus before asking Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) who is present among us?" We asked (him) about it and he said, "It is better for you not to do so, for if any soul (till the Day of Resurrection) is predestined to exist, it will exist."'
Hadith - 183
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah: We took part in the Ghazwa of Najd along with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and when the time for the afternoon rest approached while he was in a valley with plenty of thorny trees, he dismounted under a tree and rested in its shade and hung his sword (on it).
The people dispersed amongst the trees in order to have shade. While we were in this state, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) called us and we came and found a bedouin sitting in front of him.
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'This (Bedouin) came to me while I was asleep, and he took my sword stealthily. I woke up while he was standing by my head, holding my sword without its sheath. He said, "Who will save you from me?" I replied, "Allah."
So he sheathed it (i.e. the sword) and sat down, and here he is.' But Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) did not punish him.
Hadith - 184
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah Al-Ansari: I saw the Prophet (ﷺ) offering his Nawafil prayer on his Mount facing the East during the Ghazwa of Anmar.
Hadith - 185
Narrated `Aisha: Whenever Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) intended to go on a journey, he used to draw lots amongst his wives, and Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to take with him the one on whom lot fell.
He drew lots amongst us during one of the Ghazwat which he fought. The lot fell on me and so I proceeded with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) after Allah's order of veiling (the women) had been revealed.
I was carried (on the back of a camel) in my howdah and carried down while still in it (when we came to a halt). So we went on till Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had finished from that Ghazwa of his and returned.
When we approached the city of Medina he announced at night that it was time for departure. So when they announced the news of departure, I got up and went away from the army camps, and after finishing from the call of nature, I came back to my riding animal.
I touched my chest to find that my necklace which was made of Zafar beads (i.e. Yemenite beads partly black and partly white) was missing. So I returned to look for my necklace and my search for it detained me.
(In the meanwhile) the people who used to carry me on my camel, came and took my howdah and put it on the back of my camel on which I used to ride, as they considered that I was in it.
In those days women were light in weight for they did not get fat, and flesh did not cover their bodies in abundance as they used to eat only a little food.
Those people, therefore, disregarded the lightness of the howdah while lifting and carrying it; and at that time I was still a young girl. They made the camel rise and all of them left (along with it).
I found my necklace after the army had gone. Then I came to their camping place to find no call maker of them, nor one who would respond to the call.
So I intended to go to the place where I used to stay, thinking that they would miss me and come back to me (in my search). While I was sitting in my resting place, I was overwhelmed by sleep and slept.
Safwan bin Al-Muattal As-Sulami Adh-Dhakwani was behind the army. When he reached my place in the morning, he saw the figure of a sleeping person and he recognized me on seeing me as he had seen me before the order of compulsory veiling (was prescribed).
So I woke up when he recited Istirja' (i.e., "To Allah we belong and to Him we will return") as soon as he recognized me. I veiled my face with my head cover at once, and by Allah, we did not speak a single word, and I did not hear him saying any word besides his Istirja'.
He dismounted from his camel and made it kneel down, putting his leg on its front legs and then I got up and rode on it. Then he set out leading the camel that was carrying me till we overtook the army in the extreme heat of midday while they were at a halt (taking a rest).
(Because of the event) some people brought destruction upon themselves and the one who spread the Ifk (i.e. slander) more was `Abdullah bin Ubai Ibn Salul."
(Urwa said, "The people propagated the slander and talked about it in his (i.e. `Abdullah's) presence and he confirmed it and listened to it and asked about it to let it prevail."
`Urwa also added, "None was mentioned as members of the slanderous group besides (`Abdullah) except Hassan bin Thabit and Mistah bin Uthatha and Hamna bint Jahsh along with others about whom I have no knowledge, but they were a group as Allah said. It is said that the one who carried most of the slander was `Abdullah bin Ubai bin Salul."
`Urwa added, "`Aisha disliked to have Hassan abused in her presence and she used to say, 'It was he who said: My father and his (i.e. my father's) father and my honor are all for the protection of Muhammad's honor from you.").
`Aisha added, "After we returned to Medina, I became ill for a month. The people were propagating the forged statements of the slanderers while I was unaware of anything of all that, but I felt that in my present ailment, I was not receiving the same kindness from Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as I used to receive when I got sick.
(But now) Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) would only come, greet me and say, 'How is that (lady)?' and leave.
That roused my doubts, but I did not discover the evil (i.e. slander) till I went out after my convalescence, I went out with Um Mistah to Al-Manasi' where we used to answer the call of nature and we used not to go out (to answer the call of nature) except at night, and that was before we had latrines near our houses.
And this habit of our concerning evacuating the bowels was similar to the habits of the old 'Arabs living in the deserts, for it would be troublesome for us to take latrines near our houses.
So I and Um Mistah who was the daughter of Abu Ruhm bin Al-Muttalib bin `Abd Manaf, whose mother was the daughter of Sakhr bin 'Amir and the aunt of Abu Bakr As-Siddiq and whose son was Mistah bin Uthatha bin `Abbas bin Al-Muttalib, went out.
I and Um Mistah returned to my house after we finished answering the call of nature. Um Mistah stumbled by getting her foot entangled in her covering sheet and on that she said, 'Let Mistah be ruined!'
I said, 'What a hard word you have said. Do you abuse a man who took part in the battle of Badr?' On that, she said, 'O you Hantah! Didn't you hear what he (i.e. Mistah) said?'
I said, 'What did he say?' Then she told me the slander of the people of Ifk. So my ailment was aggravated, and when I reached my home, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) came to me, and after greeting me, said, 'How is that (lady)?'
I said, 'Will you allow me to go to my parents?' as I wanted to be sure about the news through them. Allah's Apostle allowed me (and I went to my parents) and asked my mother, 'O mother! What are the people talking about?'
She said, 'O my daughter! Don't worry, for scarcely is there a charming woman who is loved by her husband and whose husband has other wives besides herself that they (i.e. women) would find faults with her.'
I said, "Subhan Allah! (I testify the uniqueness of Allah). Are the people really talking in this way?" I kept on weeping that night till dawn. I could neither stop weeping nor sleep, then in the morning again, I kept on weeping.
When the Divine Inspiration was delayed, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) called `Ali bin Abi Talib and Usama bin Zaid to ask and consult them about divorcing me.
Usama bin Zaid said what he knew of my innocence, and the respect he preserved in himself for me. Usama said, '(O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)!) She is your wife and we do not know anything except good about her.'
`Ali bin Abi Talib said, 'O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Allah does not put you in difficulty and there are plenty of women other than she, yet, ask the maid-servant who will tell you the truth.'
On that, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) called Barira (i.e. the maid-servant) and said, 'O Barira! Did you ever see anything which aroused your suspicion?'
Barira said to him, 'By Him Who has sent you with the Truth. I have never seen anything in her (i.e. Aisha) which I would conceal, except that she is a young girl who sleeps leaving the dough of her family exposed so that the domestic goats come and eat it.'
So, on that day, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) got up on the pulpit and complained about `Abdullah bin Ubai (bin Salul) before his companions, saying, 'O you Muslims! Who will relieve me from that man who has hurt me with his evil statement about my family?
By Allah, I know nothing except good about my family, and they have blamed a man about whom I know nothing except good and he used never to enter my home except with me.'
Sa`d bin Mu`adh, the brother of Banu `Abd Al-Ashhal, got up and said, 'O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! I will relieve you from him; if he is from the tribe of Al-Aus, then I will chop his head off, and if he is from our brothers, i.e. Al-Khazraj, then order us, and we will fulfill your order.'
On that, a man from Al-Khazraj got up. Um Hassan, his cousin, was from his branch tribe, and he was Sa`d bin Ubada, chief of Al-Khazraj. Before this incident, he was a pious man, but his love for his tribe goaded him into saying to Sa`d (bin Mu`adh), 'By Allah, you have told a lie; you shall not and cannot kill him. If he belonged to your people, you would not wish him to be killed.'
On that, Usaid bin Hudair who was the cousin of Sa`d (bin Mu`adh) got up and said to Sa`d bin 'Ubada, 'By Allah! You are a liar! We will surely kill him, and you are a hypocrite arguing on the behalf of hypocrites.'
On this, the two tribes of Al-Aus and Al Khazraj got so much excited that they were about to fight while Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was standing on the pulpit. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) kept on quietening them till they became silent and so did he.
All that day I kept on weeping with my tears never ceasing, and I could never sleep. In the morning my parents were with me, and I wept for two nights and a day with my tears never ceasing and I could never sleep till I thought that my liver would burst from weeping.
So, while my parents were sitting with me and I was weeping, an Ansari woman asked me to grant her admittance. I allowed her to come in, and when she came in, she sat down and started weeping with me.
While we were in this state, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) came, greeted us and sat down. He had never sat with me since that day of the slander. A month had elapsed and no Divine Inspiration came to him about my case.
Allah's Apostle then recited Tashah-hud and then said, "Amma Badu, O `Aisha! I have been informed so-and-so about you; if you are innocent, then soon Allah will reveal your innocence, and if you have committed a sin, then repent to Allah and ask Him for forgiveness, for when a slave confesses his sins and asks Allah for forgiveness, Allah accepts his repentance."
When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) finished his speech, my tears ceased flowing completely that I no longer felt a single drop of tear flowing.
I said to my father, 'Reply to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) on my behalf concerning what he has said.' My father said, 'By Allah, I do not know what to say to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ).'
Then I said to my mother, 'Reply to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) on my behalf concerning what he has said.' She said, 'By Allah, I do not know what to say to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ).'
In spite of the fact that I was a young girl and had a little knowledge of Qur'an, I said, 'By Allah, no doubt I know that you heard this (slanderous) speech so that it has been planted in your hearts (i.e. minds) and you have taken it as a truth.
Now if I tell you that I am innocent, you will not believe me, and if I confess to you about it, and Allah knows that I am innocent, you will surely believe me.
By Allah, I find no similitude for me and you except that of Joseph's father when he said, "(For me) patience in the most fitting against that which you assert; it is Allah (Alone) Whose Help can be sought."
Then I turned to the other side and lay on my bed; and Allah knew then that I was innocent and hoped that Allah would reveal my innocence.
But, by Allah, I never thought that Allah would reveal about my case Divine Inspiration that would be recited (forever) as I considered myself too unworthy to be talked of by Allah with something of my concern, but I hoped that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) might have a dream in which Allah would prove my innocence.
But, by Allah, before Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) left his seat and before any of the household left, the Divine inspiration came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). So there overtook him the same hard condition which used to overtake him, (when he used to be inspired Divinely).
The sweat was dropping from his body like pearls though it was a wintry day and that was because of the weighty statement which was being revealed to him.
When that state of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was over, he got up smiling, and the first word he said was, 'O `Aisha! Allah has declared your innocence!'
Then my Mother said to me, 'Get up and go to him (i.e. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)).' I replied, 'By Allah, I will not go to him, and I praise none but Allah.'
So Allah revealed the ten Verses: "Verily! They who spread the slander are a gang, among you..." (Surah 24: Ayat 11-20). Allah revealed those Qur'anic Verses to declare my innocence.
Abu Bakr As-Siddiq who used to disburse money for Mistah bin Uthatha because of his relationship to him and his poverty, said, 'By Allah, I will never give to Mistah bin Uthatha anything after what he has said about Aisha.'
Then Allah revealed: "And let not those among you who are good and wealthy swear not to give (any sort of help) to their kinsmen, those in need, and those who have left their homes for Allah's cause, let them pardon and forgive. Do you not love that Allah should forgive you? And Allah is oft-Forgiving Most Merciful." (Surah 24: Ayah 22)
Abu Bakr As-Siddiq said, 'Yes, by Allah, I would like that Allah forgive me,' and went on giving Mistah the money he used to give him before. He also added, 'By Allah, I will never deprive him of it at all.'
Aisha further said: "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) also asked Zainab bint Jahsh (i.e. his wife) about my case. He said to Zainab, "What do you know and what did you see?" She replied, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! I refrain from claiming falsely that I have heard or seen anything. By Allah, I know nothing except good (about `Aisha)."
From amongst the wives of the Prophet (ﷺ) Zainab was my peer (in beauty and in the love she received from the Prophet) but Allah saved her from that evil because of her piety.
Her sister Hamna, started struggling on her behalf and she was destroyed along with those who were destroyed.
The man who was blamed said, "Subhan-Allah! By Him in Whose Hand my soul is, I have never uncovered the cover (i.e. veil) of any female." Later on, the man was martyred in Allah's Cause.
Hadith - 186
Narrated Az-Zuhri: Al-Walid bin `Abdul-Malik said to me, "Have you heard that `Ali' was one of those who slandered `Aisha?"
I replied, "No, but two men from your people (named) Abu Salama bin `Abdur-Rahman and Abu Bakr bin `Abdur-Rahman bin Al-Harith have informed me that Aisha told them that `Ali remained silent about her case."
Hadith - 187
Narrated Masruq bin Al-Ajda: Um Ruman, the mother of `Aisha said that while `Aisha and she were sitting, an Ansari woman came and said, "May Allah harm such-and-such a person!" Um Ruman said to her, "What is the matter?"
She replied, "My son was amongst those who talked of the story (of the Slander)." Um Ruman said, "What is that?" She said, "So-and-so..." and narrated the whole story.
On that, `Aisha said, "Did Allah's Apostle hear about that?" She replied, "Yes." `Aisha further said, "And Abu Bakr too?" She replied, "Yes."
On that, `Aisha fell down fainting, and when she came to her senses, she had got fever with rigors. I put her clothes over her and covered her. The Prophet (ﷺ) came and asked, "What is wrong with this (lady)?" Um Ruman replied, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! She (i.e. `Aisha) has got temperature with rigors."
He said, "Perhaps it is because of the story that has been talked about?" She said, "Yes."
`Aisha sat up and said, "By Allah, if I took an oath (that I am innocent), you would not believe me, and if I said (that I am not innocent), you would not excuse me. My and your example is like that of Jacob and his sons (as Jacob said): 'It is Allah (Alone) Whose Help can be sought against that you assert.'
Um Ruman said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) then went out saying nothing. Then Allah declared her innocence. On that, `Aisha said (to the Prophet), "I thank Allah only; thank neither anybody else nor you."
Hadith - 188
Narrated Ibn Abi Mulaika: `Aisha used to recite this Verse: 'As you tell lie with your tongues' (Surah 24: Ayah 15) and used to say "Al-Walq" means "telling of a lie." She knew this Verse more than anybody else as it was revealed about her.
Hadith - 189
Narrated Hisham's father: I started abusing Hassan in front of `Aisha. She said, "Do not abuse him, as he used to defend Allah's Apostle (against the infidels)."
`Aisha added, "Once Hassan took the permission from the Prophet (ﷺ) to say poetic verses against the infidels. On that, the Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'How will you exclude my forefathers (from that)?' Hassan replied, 'I will take you out of them as one takes a hair out of the dough.'"
Hisham's father added, "I abused Hassan as he was one of those who spoke against `Aisha."
Hadith - 190
Narrated Masruq: We went to `Aisha while Hassan bin Thabit was with her reciting poetry to her from some of his poetic verses, saying "A chaste wise lady about whom nobody can have suspicion. She gets up with an empty stomach because she never eats the flesh of indiscreet (ladies)." `Aisha said to him, "But you are not like that."
I said to her, "Why do you grant him admittance, though Allah said: 'And as for him among them, who had the greater share therein, his will be a severe torment.' (Surah 24: Ayah 11)"
On that, `Aisha said, "And what punishment is more than blinding?" She added, "Hassan used to defend or say poetry on behalf of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (against the infidels)."
Hadith - 191
Narrated Zaid bin Khalid: We went out with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) in the year of Al-Hudaibiya. One night it rained and Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) led us in the Fajr prayer and (after finishing it), turned to us and said, "Do you know what your Lord has said?" We replied, "Allah and His Apostle know it better."
He said, "Allah said: '(Some of) My slaves got up believing in Me, and (some of them) disbelieving in Me. The one who said: We have been given rain through Allah's Mercy and Allah's Blessing and Allah's Bounty, then he is a believer in Me, and is a disbeliever in the star.
And whoever said: We have been given rain because of such-and-such star, then he is a believer in the star, and is a disbeliever in Me.'"
Hadith - 192
Narrated Anas: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) performed four `Umras, all in the month of Dhul-Qa'da, except the one which he performed with his Hajj (i.e. in Dhul-Hijja).
He performed one `Umra from Al-Hudaibiya in Dhul-Qa'da, another `Umra in the following year in Dhul Qa'da, a third from Al-Jirana where he distributed the war booty of Hunain, in Dhul Qa'da, and the fourth `Umra he performed was with his Hajj.
Hadith - 193
Narrated Abu Qatada: We set out with the Prophet (ﷺ) in the year of Al-Hudaibiya, and all his companions assumed the state of Ihram, but I did not.
Hadith - 194
Narrated Al-Bara: Do you (people) consider the conquest of Mecca, the Victory (referred to in the Qur'an, Surah 48: Ayah 1) was the conquest of Mecca a victory?
We really consider that the actual Victory was the Ar-Ridwan Pledge of allegiance which we gave on the day of Al-Hudaibiya (to the Prophet (ﷺ)).
On the day of Al-Hudaibiya we were fourteen hundred men along with the Prophet (ﷺ). Al-Hudaibiya was a well, the water of which we used up leaving not a single drop of water in it. When the Prophet (ﷺ) was informed of that, he came and sat on its edge.
Then he asked for a utensil of water, performed ablution from it, rinsed (his mouth), invoked (Allah), and poured the remaining water into the well. We stayed there for a while and then the well brought forth what we required of water for ourselves and our riding animals.
Hadith - 195
Narrated Al-Bara bin Azib: That they were in the company of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) on the day of Al-Hudaibiya and their number was 1400 or more. They camped at a well and drew its water till it was dried.
When they informed Allah's Apostle of that, he came and sat over its edge and said, "Bring me a bucket of its water." When it was brought, he spat and invoked (Allah) and said, "Leave it for a while."
Then they quenched their thirst and watered their riding animals (from that well) till they departed.
Hadith - 196
Narrated Salim: Jabir said, "On the day of Al-Hudaibiya, the people felt thirsty and Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had a utensil containing water. He performed ablution from it and then the people came towards him.
Allah's Apostle said, 'What is wrong with you?' The people said, 'O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! We haven't got any water to perform ablution with or to drink, except what you have in your utensil.'
So the Prophet (ﷺ) put his hand in the utensil and the water started spouting out between his fingers like springs. So we drank and performed ablution."
I said to Jabir, "What was your number on that day?" He replied, "Even if we had been one hundred thousand, that water would have been sufficient for us. Anyhow, we were 1500."
Hadith - 197
Narrated Qatada: I said to Sa`id bin Al-Musaiyab, "I have been informed that Jabir bin `Abdullah said that the number (of Al-Hudaibiya Muslim warriors) was 1400."
Sa`id said to me, "Jabir narrated to me that they were 1500 who gave the Pledge of allegiance to the Prophet (ﷺ) on the day of Al-Hudaibiya."
Hadith - 198
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah: On the day of Al-Hudaibiya, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said to us, "You are the best people on the earth!" We were 1400 then. If I could see now, I would have shown you the place of the Tree (beneath which we gave the Pledge of Allegiance)." Salim said, "Our number was 1400".
Hadith - 199
Abdullah bin Abi `Aufa said, "The people (who gave the Pledge of allegiance) under the Tree numbered 1300, and the number of Bani Aslam was 1/8 of the Emigrants."
Hadith - 200
Narrated Mirdas Al-Aslami: Who was among those (who had given the Pledge of allegiance) under the Tree: Pious people will die in succession, and there will remain the dregs of society who will be like the useless residues of dates and barley, and Allah will pay no attention to them.
Hadith - 201
Narrated Marwan and Al-Miswar bin Makhrama: The Prophet (ﷺ) went out in the company of 1300 to 1500 of his companions in the year of Al-Hudaibiya, and when they reached Dhul-Hulaifa, he garlanded and marked his Hadi and assumed the state of Ihram.
Hadith - 202
Narrated Ka`b bin Ujra: That Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saw him with the lice falling (from his head) on his face. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Are your lice troubling you?" Ka`b said, "Yes."
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) thus ordered him to shave his head while he was at Al-Hudaibiya. Up to then there was no indication that all of them would finish their state of Ihram and they hoped that they would enter Mecca.
Then the order of Al-Fidya was revealed, so Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) ordered Ka`b to feed six poor persons with one Faraq of food, or slaughter a sheep, or fast for three days.
Hadith - 203
Narrated Aslam: Once I went with `Umar bin Al-Khattab to the market, a young woman followed `Umar and said, "O chief of the believers! My husband has died, leaving little children.
By Allah, they have not even a sheep's trotter to cook; they have no farms or animals. I am afraid that they may die because of hunger, and I am the daughter of Khufaf bin Ima Al-Ghifari, and my father witnessed the Pledge (of allegiance) of Al-Hudaibiya with the Prophet."
`Umar stopped and did not proceed, and said, "I welcome my near relative." Then he went towards a strong camel which was tied in the house, and carried onto it two sacks he had loaded with food grains and put between them money and clothes and gave her its rope to hold and said, "Lead it, and this provision will not finish till Allah gives you a good supply."
A man said, "O chief of the believers! You have given her too much." `Umar said disapprovingly, "May your mother be bereaved of you! By Allah, I have seen her father and brother besieging a fort for a long time and conquering it, and then we were discussing what their shares they would have from that war booty."
Hadith - 204
Narrated Sa`id bin Al-Musaiyab: That his father said, "I saw the Tree (of the Ar-Ridwan Pledge of allegiance) and when I returned to it later, I was not able to recognize it". (The sub-narrator Mahmud said, Al-Musaiyab said, 'Then I forgot it (i.e., the Tree)'.)
Hadith - 205
Narrated Tariq bin `Abdur-Rahman: When I set out for Hajj, I passed by some people offering a prayer. I asked, "What is this mosque?" They said, "This is the Tree where Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) took the Ar-Ridwan Pledge of allegiance."
Then I went to Sa`id bin Musaiyab and informed him about it. Sa`id said, "My father said that he was amongst those who had given the Pledge of allegiance to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) beneath the Tree.
He (i.e. my father) said, "When we set out the following year, we forgot the Tree and were unable to recognize it."
Then Sa`id said (perhaps ironically), "The companions of the Prophet (ﷺ) could not recognize it; nevertheless, you do recognize it; therefore you have a better knowledge."
Hadith - 206
Narrated Sa`id bin Al-Musaiyab: That his father was amongst those who had given the Pledge of allegiance (to the Prophet (ﷺ)) beneath the Tree, and the next year when they went towards the Tree, they were not able to recognize it.
Hadith - 207
Narrated Tariq: (The tree where the Ridwan Pledge of allegiance was taken by the Prophet (ﷺ)) was mentioned before Sa`id bin Al-Musaiyab. On that, he smiled and said, "My father informed me (about it) and he had witnessed it (i.e. the Pledge)."
Hadith - 208
Narrated `Abdullah bin Abi `Aufa: (Who was one of those who had given the Pledge of allegiance to the Prophet (ﷺ) beneath the Tree) When the people brought Sadaqa (i.e. Zakat) to the Prophet (ﷺ) he used to say, "O Allah! Bless them with your Mercy."
Once my father came with his Sadaqa to him whereupon he (i.e. the Prophet (ﷺ)) said, "O Allah! Bless the family of Abu `Aufa."
Hadith - 209
Narrated `Abbas bin Tamim: When it was the day (of the battle) of Al-Harra, the people were giving Pledge of allegiance to `Abdullah bin Hanzala. Ibn Zaid said, "For what are the people giving Pledge of allegiance to `Abdullah bin Hanzala?" It was said to him, "For death."
Ibn Zaid said, "I will never give the Pledge of allegiance for that to anybody else after Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)." Ibn Zaid was one of those who had witnessed the day of Al-Hudaibiya with the Prophet (ﷺ).
Hadith - 210
Narrated Iyas bin Salama bin Al-Akwa`: My father who was amongst those who had given the Pledge of allegiance to the Prophet (ﷺ) beneath the Tree, said to me, "We used to offer the Jumua prayer with the Prophet (ﷺ) and then depart at a time when the walls had no shade for us to take shelter in."
Hadith - 211
Narrated Yazid bin Abi Ubaid: I said to Salama bin Al-Akwa`, "For what did you give the Pledge of allegiance to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) on the day of Al-Hudaibiya?" He replied, "For death (in the Cause of Islam)."
Hadith - 212
Narrated Al-Musaiyab: I met Al-Bara bin `Azib and said (to him), "May you live prosperously! You enjoyed the company of the Prophet (ﷺ) and gave him the Pledge of allegiance (of Al-Hudaibiya) under the Tree."
On that, Al-Bara' said, "O my nephew! You do not know what we have done after him (i.e. his death)."
Hadith - 213
Narrated Abu Qilaba: That Thabit bin Ad-Dahhak had informed him that he was one of those who had given the Pledge of allegiance (of Al-Hudaibiya) beneath the Tree.
Hadith - 214
Narrated Anas bin Malik: Regarding Allah's Statement: "Verily! We have granted you (O, Muhammad) Manifest victory," (Surah 48: Ayah 1) it refers to the Al-Hudaibiya Pledge.
And the companions of the Prophet (ﷺ) said (to the Prophet), "Congratulations and happiness for you; but what reward shall we get?" So Allah revealed: "That He may admit the believing men and women to gardens beneath which rivers flow."
Hadith - 215
Narrated Zahir Al-Aslami (who was one of those who had witnessed (the Pledge of allegiance beneath) the Tree): While I was making fire beneath the cooking pots containing donkey's meat, the announcer of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) announced, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbids you to eat donkey's meat."
Hadith - 216
The same narration was told by Majza'a from a man called Uhban bin Aus who was one of those who had witnessed (the Pledge of allegiance beneath) the Tree, and who had some trouble in his knee so that while doing prostrations, he used to put a pillow underneath his knee.
Hadith - 217
Narrated Suwaid bin An-Nu`man, who was one of those who witnessed (the Pledge of allegiance beneath) the Tree: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and his companions were given Sawiq and they chewed it.
Hadith - 218
Narrated Abu Jamra: I asked A'idh bin `Amr, who was one of the companions of the Prophet (ﷺ), one of those who gave the allegiance to the Prophet (ﷺ) under the Tree: "Can the witr prayer be repeated (in one night)?"
He said, "If you have offered it in the first part of the night, you should not repeat it in the last part of the night."
Hadith - 219
Narrated Zaid bin Aslam: My father said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was proceeding at night on one of his journeys and `Umar bin Al-Khattab was going along with him.
`Umar bin Al-Khattab asked him (about something) but Allah's Apostle did not answer him. `Umar asked him again, but he did not answer him. He asked him again (for the third time) but he did not answer him.
On that, `Umar bin Al-Khattab addressed himself saying, "May your mother be bereaved of you, O `Umar, for you have asked Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) thrice, yet he has not answered you."
`Umar said, "Then I made my camel run fast and took it in front of the other Muslims, and I was afraid that something might be revealed in my connection. I had hardly waited for a moment when I heard somebody calling me.
I said, 'I was afraid that something might have been revealed about me.' Then I came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and greeted him.
He (i.e. the Prophet (ﷺ)) said, 'Tonight there has been revealed to me a Surah which is dearer to me than (all the world) on which the sun rises,' and then he recited: 'Verily! We have granted you (O Muhammad) a manifest victory.'" (Surah 48: Ayah 1)
Hadith - 220
Narrated Al-Miswar bin Makhrama and Marwan bin Al-Hakam (one of them said more than his friend): The Prophet (ﷺ) set out in the company of more than one-thousand of his companions in the year of Al-Hudaibiya, and when he reached Dhul-Hulaifa, he garlanded his Hadi (i.e. sacrificing animal), assumed the state of Ihram for `Umra from that place and sent a spy of his from Khuza'a (tribe).
The Prophet (ﷺ) proceeded on till he reached (a village called) Ghadir-al-Ashtat. There, his spy came and said, "The Quraish (infidels) have collected a great number of people against you, and they have collected against you the Ethiopians, and they will fight with you, and will stop you from entering the Ka`ba and prevent you."
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O people! Give me your opinion. Do you recommend that I should destroy the families and offspring of those who want to stop us from the Ka`ba? If they should come to us (for peace) then Allah will destroy a spy from the pagans, or otherwise we will leave them in a miserable state."
On that, Abu Bakr said, "O Allah Apostle! You have come with the intention of visiting this House (i.e. Ka`ba) and you do not want to kill or fight anybody. So proceed to it, and whoever should stop us from it, we will fight him."
On that, the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Proceed on, in the Name of Allah."
Hadith - 221
Narrated `Urwa bin Az-Zubair: That he heard Marwan bin Al-Hakam and Al-Miswar bin Makhrama relating one of the events that happened to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) in the `Umra of Al-Hudaibiya.
They said, "When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) concluded the truce with Suhail bin `Amr on the day of Al-Hudaibiya, one of the conditions which Suhail bin `Amr stipulated was his saying (to the Prophet (ﷺ)), "If anyone from us (i.e. infidels) ever comes to you, though he has embraced your religion, you should return him to us, and should not interfere between us and him."
Suhail refused to conclude the truce with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) except on this condition. The believers disliked this condition and got disgusted with it and argued about it.
But when Suhail refused to conclude the truce with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) except on that condition, Allah's Apostle concluded it. Accordingly, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) then returned Abu Jandal bin Suhail to his father, Suhail bin `Amr, and returned every man coming to him from them during that period even if he was a Muslim.
The believing women Emigrants came (to Medina) and Um Kulthum, the daughter of `Uqba bin Abi Mu'ait was one of those who came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and she was an adult at that time.
Her relatives came, asking Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) to return her to them, and in this connection, Allah revealed the Verses dealing with the believing (women).
Hadith - 222
Aisha said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to test all the believing women who migrated to him, with the following Verse: "O Prophet! When the believing women come to you to give the pledge of allegiance to you..." (Surah 60: Ayah 12)
`Urwa's uncle said, "We were informed when Allah ordered His Apostle to return to the pagans what they had given to their wives who lately migrated (to Medina) and we were informed that Abu Basir..." relating the whole narration.
Hadith - 223
Narrated Nafi`: `Abdullah bin `Umar set out for Umra during the period of afflictions, and he said, "If I should be stopped from visiting the Ka`ba, I will do what we did when we were with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)." He assumed Ihram for `Umra in the year of Al-Hudaibiya.
Hadith - 224
Narrated Nafi`: Ibn `Umar assumed Ihram and said, "If something should intervene between me and the Ka`ba, then I will do what the Prophet (ﷺ) did when the Quraish infidels intervened between him and (the Ka`ba)."
Then Ibn `Umar recited: "You have indeed in Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) a good example to follow." (Surah 33: Ayah 21)
Hadith - 225
Narrated Nafi`: One of `Abdullah's sons said to `Abdullah (bin `Umar), "I wish you would stay this year (and not perform Hajj) as I am afraid that you will not be able to reach the Ka`ba."
On that, he (i.e. `Abdullah bin `Umar) said, "We went out with the Prophet (ﷺ) (for `Umra), and when the Quraish infidel intervened between us and the Ka`ba, the Prophet (ﷺ) slaughtered his Hadi and shaved (his head), and his companions cut short their hair."
Then `Abdullah bin `Umar said, "I make you witness that I have intended to perform `Umra, and if I am allowed to reach the Ka`ba, I will perform the Tawaf, and if something (i.e. obstacles) intervene between me and the Ka`ba, then I will do what Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) did."
Then after going for a while, he said, "I consider the ceremonies of both `Umra and Hajj as one and the same, so I would like you to witness that I have intended to perform Hajj along with my `Umra."
So he performed only one Tawaf and one Sai (between Safa and Marwa) and finished the Ihram of both Umra and Hajj.
Hadith - 226
Narrated Nafi`: The people used to say that Ibn `Umar had embraced Islam before `Umar. This is not true. What happened is that `Umar sent `Abdullah to bring his horse from an Ansari man so as to fight on it.
At that time, the people were giving the Pledge of allegiance to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) near the Tree, and `Umar was not aware of that. So `Abdullah (bin `Umar) gave the Pledge of Allegiance (to the Prophet (ﷺ)) and went to take the horse and brought it to `Umar.
While `Umar was putting on the armor to get ready for fighting, `Abdullah informed him that the people were giving the Pledge of allegiance to Allah's Apostle beneath the Tree.
So `Umar set out and `Abdullah accompanied him till he gave the Pledge of allegiance to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), and it was this event that made people say that Ibn `Umar had embraced Islam before `Umar.
Hadith - 227
Abdullah bin `Umar added: The people were along with the Prophet (ﷺ) on the day of Al-Hudaibiya spreading in the shade of the trees. Suddenly the people surrounded the Prophet (ﷺ) and started looking at him.
`Umar said, "O `Abdullah! Go and see why the people are encircling Allah's Apostle and looking at him." `Abdullah bin `Umar then saw the people giving the Pledge o allegiance to the Prophet (ﷺ).
So he also gave the Pledge of allegiance and returned to `Umar, who went out in his turn and gave the Pledge of allegiance to the Prophet (ﷺ).
Hadith - 228
Narrated `Abdullah bin Abi `Aufa: We were in the company of the Prophet (ﷺ) when he performed the `Umra. He performed the Tawaf and we did the same; he offered the prayer and we also offered the prayer with him.
Then he performed the Sai between Safa and Marwa and we were guarding him against the people of Mecca so that nobody should harm him.
Hadith - 229
Narrated Abu Wa'il: When Sahl bin Hunaif returned from (the battle of) Siffin, we went to ask him (as to why he had come back).
He replied, "(You should not consider me a coward) but blame your opinions. I saw myself on the day of Abu Jandal (inclined to fight), and if I had the power of refusing the order of Allah's Apostle then, I would have refused it (and fought the infidels bravely). Allah and His Apostle know (what is convenient) better.
Whenever we put our swords on our shoulders for any matter that terrified us, our swords led us to an easy agreeable solution before the present situation (of disagreement and dispute between the Muslims).
When we mend the breach in one side, it opened in another, and we do not know what to do about it."
Hadith - 230
Narrated Ka`b bin Ujra: The Prophet (ﷺ) came to me at the time of Al-Hudaibiya Pledge while lice were falling on my face. He said, "Are the lice of your head troubling you?" I said, "Yes."
He said, "Shave your head and fast for three days, or feed six poor persons, or slaughter a sheep as sacrifice." (The sub-narrator, Aiyub said, "I do not know with which of these three options he started).
Hadith - 231
Narrated Ka`b bin Ujra: We were in the company of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) at Al-Hudaibiya in the state of Ihram, and the pagans did not allow us to proceed (to the Ka`ba). I had thick hair and lice started falling on my face.
The Prophet (ﷺ) passed by me and said, "Are the lice of your head troubling you?" I replied, Yes."
The sub-narrator added, "Then the following Divine Verse was revealed: "And if anyone of you is ill or has an ailment in his scalp, (necessitating shaving) must pay a ransom (Fidya) of either fasting or feeding the poor, or offering a sacrifice." (Surah 2: Ayah 196) 
Hadith - 232
Narrated Anas: Some people of the tribe of `Ukl and `Uraina arrived at Medina to meet the Prophet (ﷺ) and embraced Islam and said, "O Allah's Prophet! We are the owners of milch livestock (i.e. bedouins) and not farmers (i.e. countrymen)."
They found the climate of Medina unsuitable for them. So Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) ordered that they should be provided with some milch camels and a shepherd and ordered them to go out of Medina and to drink the camels' milk and urine (as medicine).
So they set out and when they reached Al-Harra, they reverted to Heathenism after embracing Islam, and killed the shepherd of the Prophet (ﷺ) and drove away the camels.
When this news reached the Prophet (ﷺ), he sent some people in pursuit of them. (So they were caught and brought back to the Prophet (ﷺ)).
The Prophet (ﷺ) gave his orders in their concern. So their eyes were branded with pieces of iron and their hands and legs were cut off, and they were left away in Harra till they died in that state of theirs.
Hadith - 233
Narrated Abu Raja', the freed slave of Abu Qilaba, who was with Abu Qilaba in Sham: `Umar bin `Abdul `Aziz consulted the people saying, "What do you think of Qasama?" They said, "It is a right (judgment) which Allah's Apostle and the Caliphs before you acted on."
Abu Qilaba was behind `Umar's bed. 'Anbasa bin Sa`id said, "But what about the narration concerning the people of `Uraina?" Abu Qilaba said, "Anas bin Malik narrated it to me," and then narrated the whole story.
Hadith - 234
Narrated Salama bin Al-Akwa`: Once I went (from Medina) towards (Al-Ghaba) before the first Adhan of the Fajr Prayer. The she-camels of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to graze at a place called Dhi-Qarad.
A slave of `Abdur-Rahman bin `Auf met me (on the way) and said, "The she-camels of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had been taken away by force." I asked, "Who had taken them?" He replied, "(The people of) Ghatafan."
I made three loud cries (to the people of Medina) saying, "O Sabahah!" I made the people between the two mountains of Medina hear me. Then I rushed onward and caught up with the robbers while they were watering the camels.
I started throwing arrows at them as I was a good archer, and I was saying, "I am the son of Al-Akwa`, and today will perish the wicked people." I kept on saying like that till I restored the she-camels (of the Prophet (ﷺ)). I also snatched thirty Burda (i.e. garments) from them.
Then the Prophet (ﷺ) and the other people came there, and I said, "O Allah's Prophet! I have stopped the people (of Ghatafan) from taking water and they are thirsty now. So send (some people) after them now."
On that, the Prophet said, "O the son of Al-Akwa`! You have over-powered them, so forgive them." Then we all came back and Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) seated me behind him on his she-camel till we entered Medina.
Hadith - 235
Narrated Suwaid bin An-Nu`man: I went out in the company of the Prophet (ﷺ) in the year of Khaibar, and when we reached As-Sahba' which is the lower part of Khaibar, the Prophet (ﷺ) offered the `Asr prayer and then asked the people to collect the journey food.
Nothing was brought but Sawiq, which the Prophet (ﷺ) ordered to be moistened with water, and then he ate it and we also ate it. Then he got up to offer the Maghrib prayer. He washed his mouth, and we too washed our mouths, and then he offered the prayer without repeating his ablution.
Hadith - 236
Narrated Salama bin Al-Akwa`: We went out to Khaibar in the company of the Prophet (ﷺ). While we were proceeding at night, a man from the group said to 'Amir, "O 'Amir! Won't you let us hear your poetry?"
'Amir was a poet, so he got down and started reciting for the people poetry that kept pace with the camels' footsteps, saying: "O Allah! Without You we Would not have been guided on the right path. Neither would we have given in charity, nor would we have prayed.
So please forgive us what we have committed (i.e. our defects); let all of us be sacrificed for Your Cause, and send Sakina (i.e. calmness) upon us to make our feet firm when we meet our enemy, and if they will call us towards an unjust thing, we will refuse. The infidels have made a hue and cry to ask others' help against us."
The Prophet (ﷺ) on that, asked, "Who is that (camel) driver (reciting poetry)?" The people said, "He is 'Amir bin Al-Akwa`." Then the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "May Allah bestow His Mercy on him."
A man amongst the people said, "O Allah's Prophet! Has (martyrdom) been granted to him? Would that you let us enjoy his company longer."
Then we reached and besieged Khaibar till we were afflicted with severe hunger. Then Allah helped the Muslims conquer it (i.e. Khaibar).
In the evening of the day of the conquest of the city, the Muslims made huge fires. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "What are these fires? For cooking what are you making the fire?" The people replied, "(For cooking) meat."
He asked, "What kind of meat?" They (i.e. people) said, "The meat of donkeys." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Throw away the meat and break the pots!"
Some man said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Shall we throw away the meat and wash the pots instead?" He said, "(Yes, you can do) that too."
So when the army files were arranged in rows (for the clash), 'Amir's sword was short and he aimed at the leg of a Jew to strike it, but the sharp blade of the sword returned to him and injured his own knee, and that caused him to die.
When they returned from the battle, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saw me (in a sad mood). He took my hand and said, "What is bothering you?" I replied, "Let my father and mother be sacrificed for you! The people say that the deeds of 'Amir are lost."
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Whoever says so, is mistaken, for 'Amir has got a double reward." The Prophet raised two fingers and added, "He (i.e. Amir) was a persevering struggler in the Cause of Allah and there are few 'Arabs who achieved the like of (good deeds) 'Amir had done."
Hadith - 237
Narrated Anas: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) reached Khaibar at night and it was his habit that whenever he reached the enemy at night, he will not attack them till it was morning.
When it was morning, the Jews came out with their spades and baskets, and when they saw him (i.e. the Prophet (ﷺ)), they said, "Muhammad! By Allah! Muhammad and his army!"
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Khaibar is destroyed, for whenever we approach a (hostile) nation (to fight), then evil will be the morning for those who have been warned."
Hadith - 238
Narrated Anas bin Malik: We reached Khaibar early in the morning and the inhabitants of Khaibar came out carrying their spades, and when they saw the Prophet (ﷺ) they said, "Muhammad! By Allah! Muhammad and his army!"
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Allahu-Akbar! Khaibar is destroyed, for whenever we approach a (hostile) nation (to fight) then evil will be the morning for those who have been warned."
We then got the meat of donkeys (and intended to eat it), but an announcement was made by the announcer of the Prophet (ﷺ), "Allah and His Apostle forbid you to eat the meat of donkeys as it is an impure thing."
Hadith - 239
Narrated Anas bin Malik: Someone came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and said, "The donkeys have been eaten (by the Muslims)." The Prophet (ﷺ) kept quiet. Then the man came again and said, "The donkeys have been eaten." The Prophet (ﷺ) kept quiet.
The man came to him the third time and said, "The donkeys have been consumed." On that, the Prophet (ﷺ) ordered an announcer to announce to the people, "Allah and His Apostle forbid you to eat the meat of donkeys." Then the cooking pots were upset while the meat was still boiling in them.
Hadith - 240
Narrated Anas: The Prophet (ﷺ) offered the Fajr Prayer near Khaibar when it was still dark and then said, "Allahu-Akbar! Khaibar is destroyed, for whenever we approach a (hostile) nation (to fight), then evil will be the morning for those who have been warned."
Then the inhabitants of Khaibar came out running on the roads. The Prophet (ﷺ) had their warriors killed, their offspring and woman taken as captives.
Safiya was amongst the captives. She first came in the share of Dihya Al-Kalbi but later on she belonged to the Prophet (ﷺ). The Prophet (ﷺ) made her manumission as her Mahr.
Hadith - 241
Narrated `Abdul `Aziz bin Suhaib: Anas bin Malik said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) took Safiya as a captive. He manumitted her and married her." Thabit asked Anas, "What did he give her as Mahr (i.e. marriage gift)?" Anas replied, "Her Mahr was herself, for he manumitted her."
Hadith - 242
Narrated Sahl bin Sa`d As Sa`idi: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (and his army) encountered the pagans and the two armies fought, and then Allah's Apostle returned to his army camps and the others (i.e. the enemy) returned to their army camps.
Amongst the companions of the Prophet (ﷺ) there was a man who could not help pursuing any single isolated pagan to strike him with his sword.
Somebody said, "None has benefited the Muslims today more than so-and-so." On that, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "He is from the people of the Hell-Fire certainly."
A man amongst the people (i.e. Muslims) said, "I will accompany him (to know the fact)." So he went along with him, and whenever he stopped, he stopped with him, and whenever he hastened, he hastened with him.
The (brave) man then got wounded severely, and seeking to die at once, he planted his sword into the ground and put its point against his chest in between his breasts, and then threw himself on it and committed suicide.
On that, the person (who was accompanying the deceased all the time) came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and said, "I testify that you are the Messenger of Allah." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Why is that (what makes you say so)?"
He said, 'It is concerning the man whom you have already mentioned as one of the dwellers of the Hell-Fire. The people were surprised by your statement, and I said to them, "I will try to find out the truth about him for you."
So I went out after him and he was then inflicted with a severe wound, and because of that he hurried to bring death upon himself by planting the handle of his sword into the ground and directing its tip towards his chest between his breasts, and then he threw himself over it and committed suicide.'
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) then said, "A man may do what seem to the people as the deeds of the dwellers of Paradise but he is from the dwellers of the Hell-Fire, and another may do what seem to the people as the deeds of the dwellers of the Hell-Fire, but he is from the dwellers of Paradise."
Hadith - 243
Narrated Abu Huraira: We witnessed (the battle of) Khaibar. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said about one of those who were with him and who claimed to be a Muslim, "This (man) is from the dwellers of the Hell-Fire."
When the battle started, that fellow fought so violently and bravely that he received plenty of wounds. Some of the people were about to doubt (the Prophet's statement), but the man, feeling the pain of his wounds, put his hand into his quiver and took out of it some arrows with which he slaughtered himself (i.e. committed suicide).
Then some men amongst the Muslims came hurriedly and said, "O Allah's Apostle! Allah has made your statement true. So-and-so has committed suicide."
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O so-and-so! Get up and make an announcement that none but a believer will enter Paradise, and that Allah may support the religion with an unchaste (evil) wicked man."
Hadith - 244
A narration about the chain of narrators.
Hadith - 245
Narrated Abu Musa Al-Ash`ari: When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) fought the battle of Khaibar, or when Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) went towards it, (whenever) the people passed over a high place overlooking a valley, they raised their voices saying, "Allahu-Akbar! Allahu-Akbar! None has the right to be worshipped except Allah."
On that, Allah's Apostle said (to them), "Lower your voices, for you are not calling a deaf or an absent one, but you are calling a Hearer Who is near and is with you."
I was behind the riding animal of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and he heard me saying, "There is neither might, nor power but with Allah." On that, he said to me, "O `Abdullah bin Qais!" I said, "Labbaik, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)!"
He said, "Shall I tell you a sentence which is one of the treasures of Paradise." I said, "Yes, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Let my father and mother be sacrificed for your sake." He said, "It is: There is neither might nor power but with Allah."
Hadith - 246
Narrated Yazid bin Abi Ubaid: I saw the trace of a wound in Salama's leg. I said to him, "O Abu Muslim! What is this wound?" He said, 'This was inflicted on me on the day of Khaibar and the people said, "Salama has been wounded."
Then I went to the Prophet (ﷺ) and he puffed his saliva in it (i.e. the wound) thrice, and since then I have not had any pain in it till this hour.'
Hadith - 247
Narrated Sahl: During one of his Ghazawat, the Prophet (ﷺ) encountered the pagans, and the two armies fought, and then each of them returned to their army camps.
Amongst the (army of the) Muslims there was a man who would follow every pagan separated from the army and strike him with his sword.
It was said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! None has fought so satisfactorily as so-and-so (namely, that brave Muslim)." The Prophet said, "He is from the dwellers of the Hell-Fire."
The people said, "Who amongst us will be of the dwellers of Paradise, if this (man) is from the dwellers of the Hell-Fire?" Then a man from amongst the people said, "I will follow him and accompany him in his fast and slow movements."
The (brave) man got wounded, and wanting to die at once, he put the handle of his sword on the ground and its tip in between his breasts, and then threw himself over it, committing suicide.
Then the man (who had watched the deceased) returned to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said, "I testify that you are Apostle of Allah." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "What is this?" The man told him the whole story.
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "A man may do what may seem to the people as the deeds of the dwellers of Paradise, but he is of the dwellers of the Hell-Fire, and a man may do what may seem to the people as the deeds of the dwellers of the Hell-Fire, but he is from the dwellers of Paradise."
Hadith - 248
Narrated Abu `Imran: Anas looked at the people wearing Tailsans (i.e. a special kind of head covering worn by Jews in old days). On that, Anas said, "At this moment they (i.e. those people) look like the Jews of Khaibar."
Hadith - 249
Narrated Salama: `Ali remained behind the Prophet (ﷺ) during the Ghazwa of Khaibar as he was suffering from eye trouble. He then said, "(How can) I remain behind the Prophet (ﷺ)," and followed him.
So when he slept on the night of the conquest of Khaibar, the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I will give the flag tomorrow, or tomorrow the flag will be taken by a man who is loved by Allah and His Apostle, and (Khaibar) will be conquered through him, (with Allah's help)."
While every one of us was hopeful to have the flag, it was said, "Here is `Ali," and the Prophet (ﷺ) gave him the flag, and Khaibar was conquered through him (with Allah's Help).
Hadith - 250
Narrated Sahl bin Sa`d: On the day of Khaibar, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Tomorrow I will give this flag to a man through whose hands Allah will give us victory. He loves Allah and His Apostle, and he is loved by Allah and His Apostle."
The people remained that night, wondering as to who would be given it. In the morning, the people went to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and everyone of them was hopeful to receive it (i.e. the flag).
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Where is `Ali bin Abi Talib?" It was said, "He is suffering from eye trouble, O Allah's Apostle." He said, "Send for him."
`Ali was brought and Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) spat in his eye and invoked good upon him. So `Ali was cured as if he never had any trouble. Then the Prophet (ﷺ) gave him the flag.
`Ali said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! I will fight with them till they become like us."
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Proceed and do not hurry. When you enter their territory, call them to embrace Islam and inform them of Allah's Rights which they should observe, for by Allah, even if a single man is led on the right path (of Islam) by Allah through you, then that will be better for you than the nice red camels."
Hadith - 251
Narrated Anas bin Malik: We arrived at Khaibar, and when Allah helped His Apostle to open the fort, the beauty of Safiya bint Huyai bin Akhtab whose husband had been killed while she was a bride, was mentioned to Allah's Apostle.
The Prophet (ﷺ) selected her for himself, and set out with her, and when we reached a place called Sadd-as-Sahba', Safiya became clean from her menses. Then Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) married her.
Hais (i.e. an 'Arabian dish) was prepared on a small leather mat. Then the Prophet (ﷺ) said to me, "Invite the people around you." So that was the marriage banquet of the Prophet (ﷺ) and Safiya.
Then we proceeded towards Medina, and I saw the Prophet (ﷺ) making for her a kind of cushion with his cloak behind him (on his camel). He then sat beside his camel and put his knee for Safiya to put her foot on, in order to ride (on the camel).
Hadith - 252
Narrated Anas bin Malik: The Prophet (ﷺ) stayed with Safiya bint Huyai for three days on the way of Khaibar where he consummated his marriage with her. Safiya was amongst those who were ordered to use a veil.
Hadith - 253
Narrated Anas: The Prophet (ﷺ) stayed for three rights between Khaibar and Medina and was married to Safiya.
I invited the Muslims to his marriage banquet and there was neither meat nor bread in that banquet, but the Prophet (ﷺ) ordered Bilal to spread the leather mats on which dates, dried yogurt and butter were put.
The Muslims said amongst themselves, "Will she (i.e. Safiya) be one of the mothers of the believers, (i.e. one of the wives of the Prophet (ﷺ)) or just (a lady captive) of what his right-hand possesses?"
Some of them said, "If the Prophet (ﷺ) makes her observe the veil, then she will be one of the mothers of the believers (i.e. one of the Prophet's (ﷺ) wives), and if he does not make her observe the veil, then she will be his lady slave."
So when he departed, he made a place for her behind him (on his and made her observe the veil).
Hadith - 254
Narrated `Abdullah bin Mughaffal: While we were besieging Khaibar, a person threw a leather container containing some fat and I ran to take it. Suddenly I looked behind, and behold! The Prophet (ﷺ) was there. So I felt shy (to take it then).
Hadith - 255
Narrated Ibn `Umar: On the day of Khaiber, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade the eating of garlic and the meat of donkeys.
Hadith - 256
Narrated `Ali bin Abi Talib: On the day of Khaibar, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade the Mut'a (i.e. temporary marriage) and the eating of donkey-meat.
Hadith - 257
Narrated Ibn `Umar: On the day of Khaibar, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade the eating of donkey meat.
Hadith - 258
Narrated Ibn `Umar: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade the eating of donkey-meat.
Hadith - 259
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah: On the day of Khaibar, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade the eating of donkey meat and allowed the eating of horse meat.
Hadith - 260
Narrated Ibn Abi `Aufa: We were afflicted with severe hunger on the day of Khaibar. While the cooking pots were boiling and some of the food was well-cooked, the announcer of the Prophet (ﷺ) came to say, "Do not eat anything the donkey-meat and upset the cooking pots."
We then thought that the Prophet (ﷺ) had prohibited such food because the Khumus had not been taken out of it. Some others said, "He prohibited the meat of donkeys from the point of view of principle, because donkeys used to eat dirty things."
Hadith - 261
Narrated Al-Bara and `Abdullah bin Abi `Aufa: That when they were in the company of the Prophet (ﷺ), they got some donkeys which they (slaughtered and) cooked. Then the announcer of the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Turn the cooking pots upside down (i.e. throw out the meat)."
Hadith - 262
Narrated Al-Bara' and Ibn Abi `Aufa: On the day of Khaibar when the cooking pots were put on the fire, the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Turn the cooking pots upside down."
Hadith - 263
Narrated Al-Bara: We took part in a Ghazwa with the Prophet (ﷺ) (same as the Hadith before).
Hadith - 264
Narrated Al-Bara Bin Azib: During the Ghazwa of Khaibar, the Prophet (ﷺ) ordered us to throw away the meat of the donkeys whether it was still raw or cooked. He did not allow us to eat it later on.
Hadith - 265
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: I do not know whether the Prophet (ﷺ) forbade the eating of donkey-meat (temporarily) because they were the beasts of burden for the people, and he disliked that their means of transportation should be lost, or he forbade it on the day of Khaibar permanently.
Hadith - 266
Narrated Ibn `Umar: On the day of Khaibar, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) divided (the war booty of Khaibar) with the ratio of two shares for the horse and one-share for the foot soldier.
(The sub-narrator, Nafi` explained this, saying, "If a man had a horse, he was given three shares and if he had no horse, then he was given one share").
Hadith - 267
Narrated Jubair bin Mut`im: `Uthman bin `Affan and I went to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said, "You had given Banu Al-Muttalib from the Khumus of Khaibar's booty and left us, in spite of the fact that we and Banu Al-Muttalib are similarly related to you."
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Banu Hashim and Banu Al-Muttalib only are one and the same." So the Prophet (ﷺ) did not give anything to Banu `Abd Shams and Banu Nawfal.
Hadith - 268
Narrated Abu Musa: The news of the migration of the Prophet (ﷺ) (from Mecca to Medina) reached us while we were in Yemen. So we set out as emigrants towards him.
We were (three) I and my two brothers. I was the youngest of them, and one of the two was Abu Burda, and the other, Abu Ruhm, and our total number was either 53 or 52 men from my people.
We got on board a boat and our boat took us to Negus in Ethiopia. There we met Ja`far bin Abi Talib and stayed with him. Then we all came (to Medina) and met the Prophet (ﷺ) at the time of the conquest of Khaibar.
Some of the people used to say to us, namely the people of the ship, "We have migrated before you."
Asma' bint 'Umais who was one of those who had come with us, came as a visitor to Hafsa, the wife the Prophet (ﷺ). She had migrated along with those other Muslims who migrated to Negus.
`Umar came to Hafsa while Asma' bint 'Umais was with her. `Umar, on seeing Asma', said, "Who is this?" She said, "Asma' bint 'Umais," `Umar said, "Is she the Ethiopian? Is she the sea-faring lady?" Asma' replied, "Yes."
`Umar said, "We have migrated before you (people of the boat), so we have got more right than you over Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)."
On that, Asma' became angry and said, "No, by Allah, while you were with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) who was feeding the hungry ones amongst you, and advised the ignorant ones amongst you, we were in the far-off hated land of Ethiopia, and all that was for the sake of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ).
By Allah, I will neither eat any food nor drink anything till I inform Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) of all that you have said. There we were harmed and frightened. I will mention this to the Prophet (ﷺ) and will not tell a lie or curtail your saying or add something to it."
Hadith - 269
So when the Prophet (ﷺ) came, she said, "O Allah's Prophet, `Umar has said so-and-so." He said (to Asma'), "What did you say to him?" Asma' said, "I told him so-and-so."
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "He (i.e. `Umar) has not got more right than you people over me, as he and his companions have (the reward of) only one migration, and you, the people of the boat, have (the reward of) two migrations."
Asma' later on said, "I saw Abu Musa and the other people of the boat coming to me in successive groups, asking me about this narration, and to them nothing in the world was more cheerful and greater than what the Prophet (ﷺ) had said about them."
Narrated Abu Burda: Asma' said, "I saw Abu Musa requesting me to repeat this narration again and again."
Hadith - 270
Narrated Abu Burda: Abu Musa said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'I recognize the voice of the group of Al-Ashariyun when they recite the Qur'an, when they enter their homes at night, and I recognize their houses by (listening) to their voices when they are reciting the Qur'an at night, although I have not seen their houses when they came to them during the day time.
Amongst them is Hakim who, on meeting the cavalry or the enemy, used to say to them (i.e. the enemy), "My companions order you to wait for them."'
Hadith - 271
Narrated Abu Musa: We came upon the Prophet (ﷺ) after he had conquered Khaibar. He then gave us a share (from the booty), but apart from us he did not give to anybody else who did not attend the Conquest.
Hadith - 272
Narrated Abu Huraira: When we conquered Khaibar, we gained neither gold nor silver as booty, but we gained cows, camels, goods and gardens.
Then we departed with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) to the valley of Al-Qura, and at that time Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had a slave called Mid`am who had been presented to him by one of Banu Ad-Dibab.
While the slave was dismounting the saddle of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) an arrow the thrower of which was unknown, came and hit him.
The people said, "Congratulations to him for the martyrdom." Allah's Apostle said, "No, by Him in Whose Hand my soul is, the sheet (of cloth) which he had taken (illegally) on the day of Khaibar from the booty before the distribution of the booty has become a flame of Fire burning him."
On hearing that, a man brought one or two leather straps of shoes to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said, "These are things I took (illegally)." On that, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "This is a strap, or these are two straps of Fire."
Hadith - 273
Narrated `Umar bin Al-Khattab: By Him in Whose Hand my soul is, were I not afraid that the other Muslims might be left in poverty, I would divide (the land of) whatever village I may conquer (among the fighters), as the Prophet (ﷺ) divided the land of Khaibar.
But I prefer to leave it as a (source of) a common treasury for them to distribute its revenue amongst themselves.
Hadith - 274
Narrated `Umar: But for the other Muslims (i.e. coming generations) I would divide (the land of) whatever villages the Muslims might conquer (among the fighters), as the Prophet (ﷺ) divided (the land of) Khaibar.
Hadith - 275
Narrated 'Anbasa bin Sa`id: Abu Huraira came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and asked him (for a share from the Khaibar booty). On that, one of the sons of Sa`id bin Al-`As said to him, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Do not give him."
Abu Huraira then said (to the Prophet (ﷺ)), "This is the murderer of Ibn Qauqal." Sa`id's son said, "How strange! A guinea pig coming from Qadum Ad-Dan."
Hadith - 276
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) sent Aban from Medina to Najd as the commander of a Sariya. Aban and his companions came to the Prophet (ﷺ) at Khaibar after the Prophet (ﷺ) had conquered it, and the reins of their horses were made of the fibre of date palm trees.
I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Do not give them a share of the booty." On that, Aban said (to me), "Strange! You suggest such a thing, though you are what you are, O guinea pig coming down from the top of Ad-Da'n (a lotus tree)!"
On that, the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O Aban, sit down!" and did not give them any share.
Hadith - 277
Narrated Sa`id: Aban bin Sa`id came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and greeted him. Abu Huraira said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! This (Aban) is the murderer of Ibn Qauqal."
(On hearing that), Aban said to Abu Huraira, "How strange your saying is! You, a guinea pig, descending from Qadum Da'n, blaming me for (killing) a person whom Allah favored (with martyrdom) with my hand, and whom He forbade to degrade me with his hand."
Hadith - 278
Narrated `Aisha: Fatima, the daughter of the Prophet (ﷺ), sent someone to Abu Bakr (when he was a caliph), asking for her inheritance of what Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had left of the property bestowed on him by Allah from the Fai (i.e. booty gained without fighting) in Medina, and Fadak, and what remained of the Khumus of the Khaibar booty.
On that, Abu Bakr said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, 'Our property is not inherited. Whatever we leave, is Sadaqa, but the family of (the Prophet) Muhammad can eat of this property.'
By Allah, I will not make any change in the state of the Sadaqa of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and will leave it as it was during the lifetime of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), and will dispose of it as Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to do."
So Abu Bakr refused to give anything of that to Fatima. So she became angry with Abu Bakr and kept away from him, and did not talk to him till she died. She remained alive for six months after the death of the Prophet (ﷺ).
When she died, her husband `Ali buried her at night without informing Abu Bakr and he said the funeral prayer by himself. When Fatima was alive, the people used to respect `Ali much, but after her death, `Ali noticed a change in the people's attitude towards him.
So `Ali sought reconciliation with Abu Bakr and gave him an oath of allegiance. `Ali had not given the oath of allegiance during those months (i.e. the period between the Prophet's death and Fatima's death).
`Ali sent someone to Abu Bakr saying, "Come to us, but let nobody come with you," as he disliked that `Umar should come. `Umar said (to Abu Bakr), "No, by Allah, you shall not enter upon them alone " Abu Bakr said, "What do you think they will do to me? By Allah, I will go to them."
So Abu Bakr entered upon them, and then `Ali uttered Tashah-hud and said (to Abu Bakr), "We know well your superiority and what Allah has given you, and we are not jealous of the good what Allah has bestowed upon you, but you did not consult us in the question of the rule and we thought that we have got a right in it because of our near relationship to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)."
Thereupon Abu Bakr's eyes flowed with tears. And when Abu Bakr spoke, he said, "By Him in Whose Hand my soul is, to keep good relations with the relatives of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) is dearer to me than to keep good relations with my own relatives.
But as for the trouble which arose between me and you about his property, I will do my best to spend it according to what is good, and will not leave any rule or regulation which I saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) following in disposing of it, but I will follow."
On that, `Ali said to Abu Bakr, "I promise to give you the oath of allegiance in this afternoon." So when Abu Bakr had offered the Zuhr prayer, he ascended the pulpit and uttered the Tashah-hud and then mentioned the story of `Ali and his failure to give the oath of allegiance, and excused him, accepting what excuses he had offered.
Then `Ali (got up) and praying (to Allah) for forgiveness, he uttered Tashah-hud, praised Abu Bakr's right, and said that he had not done what he had done because of jealousy of Abu Bakr or as a protest of that Allah had favored him with.
`Ali added, "But we used to consider that we too had some right in this affair (of rulership) and that he (i.e. Abu Bakr) did not consult us in this matter, and therefore caused us to feel sorry."
On that, all the Muslims became happy and said, "You have done the right thing." The Muslims then became friendly with `Ali as he returned to what the people had done (i.e. giving the oath of allegiance to Abu Bakr).
Hadith - 279
Narrated `Aisha: When Khaibar was conquered, we said, "Now we will eat our fill of dates."
Hadith - 280
Narrated Ibn `Umar: We did not eat our fill except after we had conquered Khaibar.
Hadith - 281
Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri and Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) appointed a man as the ruler of Khaibar, who later brought some Janib (i.e. dates of good quality) to the Prophet (ﷺ).
On that, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said (to him), "Are all the dates of Khaibar like this?" He said, "No, by Allah, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! But we take one Sa of these (dates of good quality) for two or three Sa's of other dates (of inferior quality)."
On that, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Do not do so, but first sell the inferior quality dates for money, and then with that money buy Janib."
Hadith - 282
Abu Sa`id and Abu Huraira said: "The Prophet (ﷺ) made the brother of Bani Adi from the Ansar as the ruler of Khaibar."
Hadith - 283
Narrated `Abdullah: The Prophet (ﷺ) gave (the land of) Khaibar to the Jews (of Khaibar) on condition that they would work on it and cultivate it, and they would have half of its yield.
Hadith - 284
Narrated Abu Huraira: When Khaibar was conquered, a (cooked) sheep containing poison was given as a present to Allah's Apostle.
Hadith - 285
Narrated Ibn `Umar: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) appointed Usama bin Zaid as the commander of some people. Those people criticized his leadership.
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If you speak ill of his leadership, you have already spoken ill of his father's leadership before. By Allah, he deserved to be a Commander, and he was one of the most beloved persons to me, and now this (i.e. Usama) is one of the most beloved persons to me after him."
Hadith - 286
Narrated Al-Bara: When the Prophet (ﷺ) went out for the `Umra in the month of Dhul-Qa'da, the people of Mecca did not allow him to enter Mecca till he agreed to conclude a peace treaty with them by virtue of which he would stay in Mecca for three days only (in the following year).
When the agreement was being written, the Muslims wrote: "This is the peace treaty, which Muhammad, Apostle of Allah has concluded."
The infidels said (to the Prophet (ﷺ)), "We do not agree with you on this, for if we knew that you are Apostle of Allah, we would not have prevented you for anything (i.e. entering Mecca, etc), but you are Muhammad, the son of `Abdullah."
Then he said to `Ali, "Erase (the name of) "Apostle of Allah"." `Ali said, "No, by Allah, I will never erase you (i.e. your name)."
Then Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) took the writing sheet...and he did not know a better writing..and he wrote or got it the following written: "This is the peace treaty which Muhammad, the son of `Abdullah, has concluded: Muhammad should not bring arms into Mecca except sheathed swords, and should not take with him any person of the people of Mecca even if such a person wanted to follow him, and if any of his companions wants to stay in Mecca, he should not forbid him."
(In the next year) when the Prophet (ﷺ) entered Mecca and the allowed period of stay elapsed, the infidels came to `Ali and said, "Tell your companion (Muhammad) to go out, as the allowed period of his stay has finished."
So the Prophet (ﷺ) departed (from Mecca) and the daughter of Hamza followed him shouting, "O Uncle, O Uncle!" `Ali took her by the hand and said to Fatima, "Take the daughter of your uncle." So she made her ride (on her horse).
(When they reached Medina) `Ali, Zaid and Ja`far quarreled about her. `Ali said, "I took her for she is the daughter of my uncle." Ja`far said, "She is the daughter of my uncle and her aunt is my wife." Zaid said, "She is the daughter of my brother."
On that, the Prophet (ﷺ) gave her to her aunt and said, "The aunt is of the same status as the mother."
He then said to `Ali, "You are from me, and I am from you," and said to Ja`far, "You resemble me in appearance and character," and said to Zaid, "You are our brother and our freed slave."
`Ali said to the Prophet (ﷺ), "Won't you marry the daughter of Hamza?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "She is the daughter of my foster brother."
Hadith - 287
Narrated Ibn `Umar: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) set out with the intention of performing `Umra, but the infidels of Quraish intervened between him and the Ka`ba, so the Prophet (ﷺ) slaughtered his Hadi (i.e. sacrificing animals) and shaved his head at Al-Hudaibiya and concluded a peace treaty with them (i.e. the infidels) on condition that he would perform the `Umra the next year, and that he would not carry arms against them except swords, and would not stay (in Mecca) more than what they would allow.
So the Prophet (ﷺ) performed the `Umra in the following year and according to the peace treaty, he entered Mecca, and when he had stayed there for three days, the infidels ordered him to leave, and he left.
Hadith - 288
Narrated Mujahid: `Urwa and I entered the Mosque and found `Abdullah bin `Umar sitting beside the dwelling place of `Aisha. `Urwa asked (Ibn `Umar), "How many `Umras did the Prophet (ﷺ) perform?" Ibn `Umar replied, "Four, one of which was in Rajab."
Then we heard `Aisha brushing her teeth, whereupon `Urwa said, "O mother of the believers! Don't you hear what Abu `Abdur-Rahman is saying? He is saying that the Prophet (ﷺ) performed four `Umra, one of which was in Rajab."
`Aisha said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) did not perform any `Umra but he (i.e. Ibn `Umar) witnessed it. And he (the Prophet (ﷺ)) never did any `Umra in (the month of) Rajab."
Hadith - 289
Narrated Ibn Abi `Aufa: When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) performed the `Umra (which he performed in the year following the treaty of Al-Hudaibiya) we were screening Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) from the infidels and their boys, lest they should harm him.
Hadith - 290
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and his companions arrived (at Mecca), the pagans said, "There have come to you a group of people who have been weakened by the fever of Yathrib (i.e. Medina)."
So the Prophet (ﷺ) ordered his companions to do Ramal (i.e. fast walking) in the first three rounds of Tawaf around the Ka`ba and to walk in between the two corners (i.e. the black stone and the Yemenite corner).
The only cause which prevented the Prophet (ﷺ) from ordering them to do Ramal in all the rounds of Tawaf was that he pitied them.
Hadith - 291
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: The Prophet (ﷺ) hastened in going around the Ka`ba and between the Safa and Marwa in order to show the pagans his strength.
Ibn `Abbas added, "When the Prophet (ﷺ) arrived (at Mecca) in the year of peace (following that of Al-Hudaibiya treaty with the pagans of Mecca), he (ordered his companions) to do Ramal in order to show their strength to the pagans."
Hadith - 292
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: The Prophet (ﷺ) married Maimuna while he was in the state of Ihram but he consummated that marriage after finishing that state. Maimuna died at Sarif (i.e. a place near Mecca).
Hadith - 293
Ibn `Abbas added: The Prophet (ﷺ) married Maimuna during the `Umrat-al-Qada' (i.e. the `Umra performed in lieu of the `Umra which the Prophet (ﷺ) could not perform because the pagans, prevented him to perform that `Umra.)
Hadith - 294
Narrated Nafi`: Ibn `Umar informed me that on the day (of Mu'tah) he stood beside Ja`far who was dead (i.e. killed in the battle), and he counted fifty wounds in his body, caused by stabs or strokes, and none of those wounds was in his back.
Hadith - 295
Abdullah bin `Umar said: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) appointed Zaid bin Haritha as the commander of the army during the Ghazwa of Mu'tah and said, "If Zaid is martyred, Ja`far should take over his position, and if Ja`far is martyred, `Abdullah bin Rawaha should take over his position."
`Abdullah bin `Umar further said, "I was present amongst them in that battle, and we searched for Ja`far bin Abi Talib and found his body amongst the bodies of the martyred ones, and found over ninety wounds over his body, caused by stabs or shots (of arrows)."
Hadith - 296
Narrated Anas: The Prophet (ﷺ) had informed the people of the martyrdom of Zaid, Ja`far and Ibn Rawaha before the news of their death reached.
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Zaid took the flag (as the commander of the army) and was martyred, then Ja`far took it and was martyred, and then Ibn Rawaha took it and was martyred." At that time the Prophet's eyes were shedding tears.
He added, "Then the flag was taken by a Sword amongst the Swords of Allah (i.e. Khalid) and Allah made them (i.e. the Muslims) victorious."
Hadith - 297
Narrated `Amra: I heard `Aisha saying, "When the news of the martyrdom of Ibn Haritha, Ja`far bin Abi Talib and `Abdullah bin Rawaha reached, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) sat with sorrow explicit on his face."
`Aisha added, 'I was then peeping through a chink in the door. A man came to him and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! The women of Ja`far are crying." Thereupon the Prophet (ﷺ) told him to forbid them to do so.
So the man went away and returned saying, "I forbade them but they did not listen to me." The Prophet (ﷺ) ordered him again to go (and forbid them).
He went again and came saying, "By Allah, they overpowered me (i.e. did not listen to me)." `Aisha said that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said (to him), "Go and throw dust into their mouths."
Aisha added, 'I said, "May Allah put your nose in the dust! By Allah, neither have you done what you have been ordered, nor have you relieved Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) from trouble."'
Hadith - 298
Narrated 'Amir: Whenever Ibn `Umar greeted the son of Ja`far, he used to say (to him), "As-salam 'Alaika, (i.e. peace be on you) O the son of two-winged person."
Hadith - 299
Narrated Khalid bin Al-Walid: On the day (of the battle of) Mu'tah, nine swords were broken in my hand, and nothing was left in my hand except a Yemenite sword of mine.
Hadith - 300
Narrated Khalid bin Al-Walid: On the day of Mu'tah, nine swords were broken in my hand and only a Yemenite sword of mine remained in my hand.
Hadith - 301
Narrated An-Nu`man bin Bashir: `Abdullah bin Rawaha fell down unconscious and his sister `Amra started crying and was saying loudly, "O Jabala! Oh so-and-so! Oh so-and-so!" and went on calling him by his (good) qualities one by one.
When he came to his senses, he said (to his sister), "Whenever you said something, I was asked, 'Are you really so (i.e. as she says)?'"
Hadith - 302
Narrated Ash-Sha'bi: An-Nu`man bin Bashir said, "Abdullah bin Rawaha fell down unconscious..." (and mentioned the above Hadith adding,) "Thereupon, when he died, she (i.e. his sister) did not weep over him."
Hadith - 303
Narrated Usama bin Zaid: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) sent us towards Al-Huraqa, and in the morning we attacked them and defeated them.
I and an Ansari man followed a man from among them and when we took him over, he said, "There is no God worthy of worship but Allah." On hearing that, the Ansari man stopped, but I killed him by stabbing him with my spear.
When we returned, the Prophet (ﷺ) came to know about that and he said, "O Usama! Did you kill him after he had said, "There is no God worthy of worship but Allah"?"
I said, "But he said so only to save himself." The Prophet (ﷺ) kept on repeating that so often that I wished I had not embraced Islam before that day.
Hadith - 304
Narrated Salama bin Al-Akwa`: I fought in seven Ghazwat (i.e. battles) along with the Prophet (ﷺ) and fought in nine battles fought by armies dispatched by the Prophet (ﷺ). Once Abu Bakr was our commander, and at another time Usama was our commander.
Hadith - 305
Narrated Salama (in another narration): I fought seven Ghazwat (i.e. battles) along with the Prophet (ﷺ) and also fought in nine battles, fought by armies sent by the Prophet (ﷺ). Once Abu Bakr was our commander, and another time Usama was (our commander).
Hadith - 306
Narrated Salama bin Al-Akwa`: I fought in nine Ghazwat along with the Prophet (ﷺ). I also fought along with Ibn Haritha when the Prophet (ﷺ) made him our commander.
Hadith - 307
Narrated Yazid bin Abi Ubaid: Salama bin Al-Akwa` said, "I fought in seven Ghazwat along with the Prophet (ﷺ)." He then mentioned Khaibar, Al-Hudaibiya, the day (i.e. battle) of Hunain and the day of Al-Qarad. I forgot the names of the other Ghazwat.
Hadith - 308
Narrated `Ali: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) sent me, Az-Zubair and Al-Miqdad saying, "Proceed till you reach Rawdat Khakh where there is a lady carrying a letter, and take that (letter) from her."
So we proceeded on our way with our horses galloping till we reached the Rawda, and there we found the lady and said to her, "Take out the letter." She said, "I have no letter."
We said, "Take out the letter, or else we will take off your clothes." So she took it out of her braid, and we brought the letter to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ).
The letter was addressed from Hatib bin Abi Balta'a to some pagans of Mecca, telling them about what Allah's Apostle intended to do. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "O Hatib! What is this?"
Hatib replied, "O Allah's Apostle! Do not make a hasty decision about me. I was a person not belonging to Quraish, but I was an ally to them from outside and had no blood relation with them, and all the Emigrants who were with you, have got their kinsmen (in Mecca) who can protect their families and properties.
So I liked to do them a favor so that they might protect my relatives as I have no blood relation with them. I did not do this to renegade from my religion (i.e. Islam) nor did I do it to choose Heathenism after Islam."
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said to his companions, "As regards him, he (i.e. Hatib) has told you the truth."
`Umar said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Allow me to chop off the head of this hypocrite!" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "He (i.e. Hatib) has witnessed the Badr battle (i.e. fought in it) and what could tell you, perhaps Allah looked at those who witnessed Badr and said, "O the people of Badr (i.e. Badr Muslim warriors), do what you like, for I have forgiven you."
Then Allah revealed the Surah: "O you who believe! Take not my enemies and your enemies as friends offering them (Your) love even though they have disbelieved in that Truth (i.e. Allah, Prophet Muhammad and this Qur'an) which has come to you ....(to the end of Verse)...And whosoever of you (Muslims) does that, then indeed he has gone (far) astray (away) from the Straight Path." (Surah 60: Ayah 1)
Hadith - 309
Narrated Ubaidullah bin `Abdullah bin `Utba: Ibn `Abbas said, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) fought the Ghazwa (i.e. battles) of Al-Fath during Ramadan."
Narrated Az-Zuhri: Ibn Al-Musaiyab (also) said the same.
Ibn `Abbas added, "The Prophet (ﷺ) fasted and when he reached Al-Kadid, a place where there is water between Qudaid and 'Usfan, he broke his fast and did not fast afterwards till the whole month had passed away."
Hadith - 310
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: The Prophet (ﷺ) left Medina (for Mecca) in the company of ten-thousand (Muslim warriors) in (the month of) Ramadan, and that was eight and a half years after his migration to Medina. He and the Muslims who were with him, proceeded on their way to Mecca.
He was fasting and they were fasting, but when they reached a place called Al-Kadid which was a place of water between 'Usfan and Qudaid, he broke his fast and so did they.
(Az-Zuhri said, "One should take the last action of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and leave his early action (while taking a verdict).")
Hadith - 311
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) set out towards Hunain in the month of Ramadan, and some of the people were fasting while some others were not fasting, and when the Prophet (ﷺ) mounted his she-camel, he asked for a tumbler of milk or water and put it on the palm of his hand or on his she-camel and then the people looked at him; and those who were not fasting told those who were fasting, to break their fast (i.e. as the Prophet (ﷺ) had done so.)
Hadith - 312
Ibn `Abbas added: The Prophet (ﷺ) went (to Hunain) in the year of the Conquest (of Mecca).
Hadith - 313
Narrated Tawus: Ibn `Abbas said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) travelled in the month of Ramadan and he fasted till he reached (a place called) 'Usfan, then he asked for a tumbler of water and drank it by the daytime so that the people might see him. He broke his fast till he reached Mecca."
Ibn `Abbas used to say, "Allah's Apostle fasted and sometimes did not fast while traveling, so one may fast or may not (on journeys)."
Hadith - 314
Narrated Hisham's father: When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) set out (towards Mecca) during the year of the Conquest (of Mecca) and this news reached (the infidels of Quraish), Abu Sufyan, Hakim bin Hizam and Budail bin Warqa came out to gather information about Allah's Messenger (ﷺ).
They proceeded on their way till they reached a place called Marr-az-Zahran (which is near Mecca). Behold! There they saw many fires as if they were the fires of `Arafat.
Abu Sufyan said, "What is this? It looked like the fires of `Arafat." Budail bin Warqa' said, "Banu `Amr are less in number than that." Some of the guards of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saw them and took them over, caught them and brought them to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ).
Abu Sufyan embraced Islam. When the Prophet (ﷺ) proceeded, he said to Al-Abbas, "Keep Abu Sufyan standing at the top of the mountain so that he would look at the Muslims." So Al-`Abbas kept him standing (at that place) and the tribes with the Prophet (ﷺ) started passing in front of Abu Sufyan in military batches.
A batch passed and Abu Sufyan said, "O `Abbas, who are these?" `Abbas said, "They are (Banu) Ghifar." Abu Sufyan said, "I have got nothing to do with Ghifar."
Then (a batch of the tribe of) Juhaina passed by and he said similarly as above. Then (a batch of the tribe of) Sa`d bin Huzaim passed by and he said similarly as above. Then (Banu) Sulaim passed by and he said similarly as above.
Then came a batch, the like of which Abu Sufyan had not seen. He said, "Who are these?" `Abbas said, "They are the Ansar headed by Sa`d bin Ubada, the one holding the flag."
Sa`d bin Ubada said, "O Abu Sufyan! Today is the day of a great battle and today (what is prohibited in) the Ka`ba will be permissible." Abu Sufyan said, "O `Abbas! How excellent the day of destruction is!"
Then came another batch (of warriors) which was the smallest of all the batches, and in it there was Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and his companions and the flag of the Prophet (ﷺ) was carried by Az-Zubair bin Al-Awwam.
When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) passed by Abu Sufyan, the latter said, (to the Prophet (ﷺ)), "Do you know what Sa`d bin 'Ubada said?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "What did he say?" Abu Sufyan said, "He said so-and-so."
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Sa`d told a lie, but today Allah will give superiority to the Ka`ba and today the Ka`ba will be covered with a (cloth) covering." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) ordered that his flag be fixed at Al-Hajun.
Narrated `Urwa: Nafi` bin Jubair bin Mut`im said, "I heard Al-Abbas saying to Az-Zubair bin Al-`Awwam, 'O Abu `Abdullah! Did Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) order you to fix the flag here?'"
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) ordered Khalid bin Al-Walid to enter Mecca from its upper part from Kada' while the Prophet (ﷺ) himself entered from Kuda. Two men from the cavalry of Khalid bin Al-Walid named Hubaish bin Al-Ash'ar and Kurz bin Jabir Al-Fihri were martyred on that day.
Hadith - 315
Narrated `Abdullah bin Mughaffal: I saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) on the day of the Conquest of Mecca over his she-camel, reciting Surat-al-Fath in a vibrant quivering tone.
(The sub-narrator, Mu'awiya added, "Were I not afraid that the people may gather around me, I would recite in vibrant quivering tone as he (i.e. `Abdullah bin Mughaffal) did, imitating Allah's Messenger (ﷺ).")
Hadith - 316
Narrated `Amr bin `Uthman: Usama bin Zaid said during the Conquest (of Mecca), "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Where will we encamp tomorrow?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "But has `Aqil left for us any house to lodge in?"
He then added, "No believer will inherit an infidel's property, and no infidel will inherit the property of a believer." Az-Zuhri was asked, "Who inherited Abu Talib?" Az-Zuhri replied, "Aqil and Talib inherited him."
Hadith - 317
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If Allah makes us victorious, our encamping place will be Al-Khaif, the place where the infidels took an oath to be loyal to Heathenism (by boycotting Banu Hashim, the Prophet's folk)."
Hadith - 318
Narrated Abu Huraira: When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) intended to carry on the Ghazwa of Hunain, he said, "Tomorrow, if Allah wished, our encamping place will be Khaif Bani Kinana, where (the infidels) took an oath to be loyal to Heathenism."
Hadith - 319
Narrated Anas bin Malik: On the day of the Conquest, the Prophet (ﷺ) entered Mecca, wearing a helmet on his head. When he took it off, a man came and said, "Ibn Khatal is clinging to the curtain of the Ka`ba." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Kill him."
(Malik, a sub-narrator, said, "On that day, the Prophet (ﷺ) was not in a state of Ihram as it appeared to us, and Allah knows better.")
Hadith - 320
Narrated `Abdullah: When the Prophet (ﷺ) entered Mecca on the day of the Conquest, there were 360 idols around the Ka`ba. The Prophet (ﷺ) started striking them with a stick he had in his hand and was saying, "Truth has come and Falsehood will neither start nor will it reappear."
Hadith - 321
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) arrived in Mecca, he refused to enter the Ka`ba while there were idols in it. So he ordered that they be taken out. The pictures of the (Prophets) Abraham and Ishmael, holding arrows of divination in their hands, were carried out.
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "May Allah ruin them (i.e. the infidels) for they knew very well that they (i.e. Abraham and Ishmael) never drew lots by these (divination arrows)."
Then the Prophet (ﷺ) entered the Ka`ba and said, "Allahu Akbar" in all its directions and came out, and did not offer any prayer therein.
Hadith - 322
Narrated 'Abdullãh bin 'Umar: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) entered Makkah through its upper part and he was riding his she-camel. Usãma bin Zaid was his Companion-rider behind him (on the same she-camel).
In his company were Bilãl and 'Uthmãn bin Talha, who was one of the Al-Hajabah (who keep the key of the gate of the Ka'bah). When he made his she-camel kneel down in the Mosque (i.e., Al-Masjid al-Haram), he ordered him (i.e., 'Uthman) to bring the key of the Ka'bah.
Then Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) entered the Ka'bah along with 'Usãma bin Zaid, Bilãl and 'Uthmãn bin Talha, and he stayed in it for a long period and then came out.
The people rushed (to get in) and `Abdullãh bin 'Umar was the first to enter, and he found Bilãl standing behind the door. Ibn `Umar asked Bilãl, "Where did Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) offer the Salat (prayer)?" Bilãl showed him the place where he (ﷺ) had offered Salat (prayer).
`Abdullah later on said, "I forgot to ask Bilãl how many prostrations (i.e., Rak'a) the Prophet (ﷺ) offered."
Hadith - 323
Narrated `Aisha: During the year of the Conquest (of Mecca), the Prophet (ﷺ) entered Mecca through Kada which was at the upper part of Mecca.
Hadith - 324
Narrated Hisham's father: During the year of the Conquest (of Mecca), the Prophet (ﷺ) entered Mecca through its upper part through Kada.
Hadith - 325
Narrated Ibn Abi Laila: None informed us that he saw the Prophet (ﷺ) offering the Duha (i.e. forenoon) prayer, except Um Hani who mentioned that the Prophet (ﷺ) took a bath in her house on the day of the Conquest (of Mecca) and then offered an eight rak`at prayer.
She added, "I never saw the Prophet (ﷺ) offering a lighter prayer than that prayer, but he was performing perfect bowing and prostrations."
Hadith - 326
Narrated 'Aishah: The Prophet (ﷺ) used to say in his bowings and prostrations, "Glorified be You, O Allah, our Lord! All the praises are for You. O Allah, forgive me."
Hadith - 327
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: `Umar used to admit me (into his house) along with the old men who had fought in the Badr battle. Some of them said (to `Umar), "Why do you allow this young man to enter with us, while we have sons of his own age?" `Umar said, "You know what person he is."
One day, `Umar called them and called me along with them, I had thought he called me on that day to show them something about me (i.e. my knowledge).
`Umar asked them, "What do you say about (the Surah): "When comes the help of Allah and the Conquest (of Mecca). And you see mankind entering the Religion of Allah (i.e. Islam) in crowds. So celebrate the Praises Of your Lord and ask for His forgiveness, Truly, He is the One Who accepts repentance and forgives." (Surah 110: Ayat 1-3)
Some of them replied, "We are ordered to praise Allah and repent to Him if we are helped and granted victory." Some said, "We do not know." Others kept quiet.
`Umar then said to me, "Do you say similarly?" I said, "No." `Umar said, "What do you say then?"
I said, "This Verse indicates the approaching of the death of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) of which Allah informed him. When comes the help of Allah and the Conquest, i.e. the Conquest of Mecca, that will be the sign of your Prophet's approaching death, so testify the uniqueness of your Lord (i.e. Allah) and praise Him and repent to Him as He is ready to forgive."
On that, `Umar said, "I do not know about it anything other than what you know."
Hadith - 328
Narrated Abu Shuraih Al-Adawi: That he said to `Amr bin Sa`id while the latter was sending troops in batches to Mecca, "O chief! Allow me to tell you a statement which Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said on the second day of the Conquest of Mecca. My two ears heard it and my heart remembered it and my two eyes saw him when he said it.
He (i.e. the Prophet) praised Allah and then said, "Mecca has been made a sanctuary by Allah and not by the people, so it is not lawful for a person who believes in Allah and the Last Day to shed blood in it, or to cut its trees.
And if someone asks the permission to fight in Mecca because Allah's Apostle was allowed to fight in it, say to him: "Allah permitted His Apostle and did not allow you, and even he (i.e. the Apostle) was allowed for a short period of the day," and today its (Mecca's) sanctity has become the same as it was before (of old) so those who are present should inform those who are absent (this Hadith)."
Then Abu Shuraih, was asked, "What did `Amr say to you?" Abu Shuraih said, "He said, 'I knew that better than you, O Abu Shuraih! The Haram (i.e. Mecca) does not give refuge to a sinner or a fleeing murderer or a person running away after causing destruction.'"
Hadith - 329
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah: That he heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying in the year of the Conquest (of Mecca) while he was in Mecca, "Allah and His Apostle have made the selling of wine (i.e. alcoholic drinks) unlawful."
Hadith - 330
Narrated Anas: We stayed (in Mecca) for ten days along with the Prophet (ﷺ) and used to offer shortened prayers (i.e. journey prayers).
Hadith - 331
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: The Prophet (ﷺ) stayed in Mecca for 19 days during which he prayed 2 rak`at in each prayer.
Hadith - 332
Narrated `Ikrima: Ibn `Abbas said, "We stayed for 19 days with Prophet (ﷺ) on a journey during which we used to offer shortened prayers."
Ibn `Abbas added, "We offer the Qasr prayer (i.e. shortened prayer) if we stay up to 19 days as travelers, but if we stay longer, we offer complete prayers."
Hadith - 333
Narrated `Abdullah bin Tha`laba bin Su`air whose face was rubbed by the Prophet (ﷺ) during the year of the Conquest (of Makkah).
Hadith - 334
Narrated Az-Zuhri: While we were in the company of the Ibn Al-Musaiyab, Sunain Abi Jamila informed us (a Hadith), Abu Jamila said that he lived during the lifetime of the Prophet (ﷺ) and that he had accompanied him (to Mecca) during the year of the Conquest (of Mecca).
Hadith - 335
Narrated `Amr bin Salama: We were at a place which was a thoroughfare for the people, and the caravans used to pass by us and we would ask them, "What is wrong with the people? What is wrong with the people? Who is that man?"
They would say, "That man claims that Allah has sent him (as an Apostle), that he has been divinely inspired, that Allah has revealed to him such-and-such." I used to memorize that (Divine) Talk, and feel as if it was inculcated in my chest (i.e. mind).
And the 'Arabs (other than Quraish) delayed their conversion to Islam till the Conquest (of Mecca). They used to say, "Leave him (i.e. Muhammad) and his people Quraish: if he overpowers them, then he is a true Prophet."
So, when Mecca was conquered, then every tribe rushed to embrace Islam, and my father hurried to embrace Islam before (the other members of) my tribe. When my father returned (from the Prophet (ﷺ)) to his tribe, he said, "By Allah, I have come to you from the Prophet (ﷺ) for sure!"
The Prophet (ﷺ) afterwards said to them, 'Offer such-and-such prayer at such-and-such time, and when the time for the prayer becomes due, then one of you should pronounce the Adhan (for the prayer), and let the one amongst you who knows Qur'an most should, lead the prayer."
So they looked for such a person and found none who knew more Qur'an than I because of the Qur'anic material which I used to learn from the caravans. They therefore made me their Imam (to lead the prayer) and at that time I was a boy of six or seven years, wearing a Burda (i.e. a black square garment) proved to be very short for me (and my body became partly naked).
A lady from the tribe said, "Won't you cover the anus of your reciter for us?" So they bought (a piece of cloth) and made a shirt for me. I had never been so happy with anything before as I was with that shirt.
Hadith - 336
Narrated `Aisha: `Utba bin Abi Waqqas authorized his brother Sa`d to take the son of the slave-girl of Zam`a into his custody. `Utba said (to him), "He is my son."
When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) arrived in Mecca during the Conquest (of Mecca), Sa`d bin Abi Waqqas took the son of the slave-girl of Zam`a and took him to the Prophet (ﷺ). `Abd bin Zam`a too came along with him.
Sa`d said, "This is the son of my brother and the latter has informed me that he is his son." `Abd bin Zam`a said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! This is my brother who is the son of the slave-girl of Zam`a and was born on his (i.e. Zam'a's) bed."
Allah's Apostle looked at the son of the slave-girl of Zam`a and noticed that he, of all the people, had the greatest resemblance to `Utba bin Abi Waqqas.
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) then said (to `Abd), "He is yours; he is your brother, O `Abd bin Zam`a, he was born on the bed (of your father)."
(At the same time) Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said (to his wife Sauda), "Veil yourself before him (i.e. the son of the slave-girl) O Sauda," because of the resemblance he noticed between him and `Utba bin Abi Waqqas.
Allah's Apostle added, "The boy is for the bed (i.e. for the owner of the bed where he was born), and stone is for the adulterer." (Ibn Shihab said, "Abu Huraira used to say that (i.e. the last statement of the Prophet (ﷺ) in the above Hadith) publicly).
Hadith - 337
Narrated `Urwa bin Az-Zubair: A lady committed theft during the lifetime of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) in the Ghazwa of Al-Fath, (i.e. Conquest of Mecca). Her folk went to Usama bin Zaid to intercede for her (with the Prophet (ﷺ)).
When Usama interceded for her with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), the color of the face of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) changed and he said, "Do you intercede with me in a matter involving one of the legal punishments prescribed by Allah?"
Usama said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Ask Allah's Forgiveness for me." So in the afternoon, Allah's Apostle got up and addressed the people.
He praised Allah as He deserved and then said, "Amma ba'du! The nations prior to you were destroyed because if a noble amongst them stole, they used to excuse him, and if a poor person amongst them stole, they would apply (Allah's) Legal Punishment to him. By Him in Whose Hand Muhammad's soul is, if Fatima, the daughter of Muhammad stole, I would cut her hand."
Then Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) gave his order in the case of that woman and her hand was cut off. Afterwards her repentance proved sincere and she got married. `Aisha said, "That lady used to visit me and I used to convey her demands to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)."
Hadith - 338
Narrated Mujashi: I took my brother to the Prophet (ﷺ) after the Conquest (of Mecca) and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! I have come to you with my brother so that you may take a pledge of allegiance from him for migration."
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The people of migration (i.e. those who migrated to Medina before the Conquest) enjoyed the privileges of migration (i.e. there is no need for migration anymore)."
I said to the Prophet (ﷺ), "For what will you take his pledge of allegiance?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I will take his pledge of allegiance for Islam, Belief, and for Jihad (i.e. fighting in Allah's Cause)."
Hadith - 339
Narrated Mujashi bin Masud: I took Abu Ma'bad to the Prophet (ﷺ) in order that he might give him the pledge of allegiance for migration. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Migration has gone to its people, but I take the pledge from him (i.e. Abu Ma'bad) for Islam and Jihad."
Hadith - 340
Narrated Mujahid: I said to Ibn `Umar, "I want to migrate to Sham." He said, "There is no migration, but Jihad (for Allah's Cause). Go and offer yourself for Jihad, and if you find an opportunity for Jihad (stay there) otherwise, come back."
Hadith - 341
(In an other narration) Ibn `Umar said: "There is no migration today or after Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)" (and completed his statement as above).
Hadith - 342
Narrated Mujahid bin Jabr: `Abdullah bin `Umar used to say, "There is no migration after the Conquest (of Mecca)."
Hadith - 343
Narrated `Ata' bin Abi Rabah: `Ubaid bin `Umar and I visited `Aisha, and he asked her about the migration.
She said, "There is no migration today. A believer used to flee with his religion to Allah and His Prophet for fear that he might be put to trial as regards his religion.
Today Allah has rendered Islam victorious; therefore a believing one can worship one's Lord wherever one wishes. But there is Jihad (for Allah's Cause) and intentions."
Hadith - 344
Narrated Mujahid: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) got up on the day of the Conquest of Mecca and said, "Allah has made Mecca a sanctuary since the day He created the Heavens and the Earth, and it will remain a sanctuary by virtue of the sanctity Allah has bestowed on it till the Day of Resurrection.
It (i.e. fighting in it) was not made lawful to anyone before me, nor will it be made lawful to anyone after me, and it was not made lawful for me except for a short period of time.
Its game should not be chased, nor should its trees be cut, nor its vegetation or grass uprooted, not its Luqata (i.e. lost things) picked up except by one who makes a public announcement about it."
Al-Abbas bin `Abdul Muttalib said, "Except the Idhkhir, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), as it is indispensable for blacksmiths and houses." On that, the Prophet (ﷺ) kept quiet and then said, "Except the Idhkhir, as it is lawful to cut."
Hadith - 345
Narrated Isma`il: I saw (a healed scar of) blow over the hand of Ibn Abi `Aufa who said, "I received that blow in the battle of Hunain in the company of the Prophet (ﷺ)." I said, "Did you take part in the battle of Hunain?" He replied, "Yes (and in other battles) before it."
Hadith - 346
Narrated Abu 'Is-haq: I heard Al-Bara' narrating when a man came and said to him, "O Abu `Umara! Did you flee on the day (of the battle) of Hunain?"
Al-Bara' replied, "I testify that the Prophet (ﷺ) did not flee, but the hasty people hurried away and the people of Hawazin threw arrows at them.
At that time, Abu Sufyan bin Al-Harith was holding the white mule of the Prophet (ﷺ) by the head, and the Prophet (ﷺ) was saying, "I am the Prophet (ﷺ) undoubtedly, I am the son of `Abdul-Muttalib."
Hadith - 347
Narrated Abu 'Is-haq: Al-Bara' was asked while I was listening, "Did you flee (before the enemy) along with the Prophet (ﷺ) on the day of (the battle of) Hunain?"
He replied, 'As for the Prophet, he did not (flee). The enemy were good archers and the Prophet (ﷺ) was saying, "I am the Prophet (ﷺ) undoubtedly; I am the son of `Abdul Muttalib."'
Hadith - 348
Narrated Abu 'Is-haq: That he heard Al-Bara narrating when a man from Qais (tribe) asked him, "Did you flee, leaving Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) on the day (of the battle) of Hunain?"
Al-Bara' replied, "But Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) did not flee. The people of Hawazin were good archers, and when we attacked them, they fled. But rushing towards the booty, we were confronted by the arrows (of the enemy).
I saw the Prophet (ﷺ) riding his white mule while Abu Sufyan was holding its reins, and the Prophet (ﷺ) was saying, "I am the Prophet (ﷺ) undoubtedly." (Israil and Zuhair said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) dismounted from his Mule.)
Hadith - 349
Narrated Marwan and Al-Miswar bin Makhrama: When the delegate of Hawazin came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) declaring their conversion to Islam and asked him to return their properties and captives, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) got up and said to them, "There is involved in this matter the people whom you see with me, and the most beloved talk to me, is the true one.
So choose one of two alternatives: Either the captives or the properties. I have been waiting for you (i.e. have not distributed the booty)."
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had delayed the distribution of their booty over ten nights after his return from Ta'if. So when they came to know that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was not going to return to them but one of the two, they said, "We prefer to have our captives."
So Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) got up amongst the Muslims, and praising Allah as He deserved, said, "To proceed! Your brothers have come to you with repentance and I see (it logical) to return their captives.
So, whoever of you likes to do that as a favor then he can do it. And whoever of you likes to stick to his share till we give him from the very first booty which Allah will give us, then he can do so."
The people said, "We do that (i.e. return the captives) willingly as a favor, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)!" Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "We do not know which of you have agreed to it and which have not; so go back and let your chiefs forward us your decision."
They went back and their chief's spoke to them, and they (i.e. the chiefs) returned to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and informed him that all of them had agreed (to give up their captives) with pleasure, and had given their permission (i.e. that the captives be returned to their people).
(The sub-narrator said, "That is what has reached me about the captives of Hawazin tribe.").
Hadith - 350
Narrated Ibn `Umar: When we returned from (the battle of) Hunain, `Umar asked the Prophet (ﷺ) about a vow which he had made during the Pre-Islamic period of Ignorance that he would perform I`tikaf. The Prophet (ﷺ) ordered him to fulfill his vow.
Hadith - 351
Narrated Abu Qatada: We set out along with the Prophet (ﷺ) during the year of (the battle of) Hunain, and when we faced the enemy, the Muslims (with the exception of the Prophet (ﷺ) and some of his companions) retreated (before the enemy).
I saw one of the pagans over-powering one of the Muslims, so I struck the pagan from behind his neck causing his armor to be cut off. The pagan headed towards me and pressed me so forcibly that I felt as if I was dying. Then death took him over and he released me.
Afterwards I followed `Umar and said to him, "What is wrong with the people?" He said, "It is the Order of Allah."
Then the Muslims returned (to the battle after the flight) and (after overcoming the enemy) the Prophet (ﷺ) sat and said, "Whoever had killed an infidel and has an evidence to this issue, will have the Salb (i.e. the belonging of the deceased, e.g. clothes, arms, horse, etc)."
I (stood up) and said, "Who will be my witness?" and then sat down. Then the Prophet (ﷺ) repeated his question. Then the Prophet (ﷺ) said the same (for the third time).
I got up and said, "Who will be my witness?" and then sat down. The Prophet (ﷺ) asked his former question again. So I got up. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "What is the matter, O Abu Qatada?" So I narrated the whole story.
A man said, "Abu Qatada has spoken the truth, and the Salb of the deceased is with me, so please compensate Abu Qatada on my behalf."
Abu Bakr said, "No! By Allah, it will never happen that the Prophet (ﷺ) will leave a Lion of Allah who fights for the Sake of Allah and His Apostle and give his spoils to you." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Abu Bakr has spoken the truth. Give it (the spoils) back to him (O man)!"
So he gave it to me and I bought a garden in (the land of) Banu Salama with it (i.e. the spoils) and that was the first property I got after embracing Islam.
Hadith - 352
Narrated Abu Qatada: When it was the day of (the battle of) Hunain, I saw a Muslim man fighting with one of the pagans and another pagan was hiding himself behind the Muslim in order to kill him.
So I hurried towards the pagan who was hiding behind the Muslim to kill him, and he raised his hand to hit me but I hit his hand and cut it off. That man got hold of me and pressed me so hard that I was afraid (that I would die), then he knelt down and his grip became loose and I pushed him and killed him.
The Muslims (excepting the Prophet (ﷺ) and some of his companions) started fleeing and I too, fled with them. Suddenly I met `Umar bin Al-Khattab amongst the people and I asked him, "What is wrong with the people?" He said, "It is the order of Allah."
Then the people returned to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (after defeating the enemy). Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Whoever produces a proof that he has killed an infidel, will have the spoils of the killed man."
So I got up to look for an evidence to prove that I had killed an infidel, but I could not find anyone to bear witness for me, so I sat down. Then it came to my mind (that I should speak of it) and I mentioned the case to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ).
A man from the persons who were sitting with him (i.e. the Prophet (ﷺ)), said, "The arms of the deceased one whom he (i.e. Abu Qatada) has mentioned are with me, so please compensate him for it (i.e. the spoils)."
Abu Bakr said, "No, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) will not give it (i.e. the spoils) to a weak humble person from Quraish and leave one of Allah's Lions who fights on behalf of Allah and His Apostle."
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) then got up and gave that (spoils) to me, and I bought with it, a garden which was the first property I got after embracing Islam.
Hadith - 353
Narrated Abu Musa: When the Prophet (ﷺ) had finished from the battle of Hunain, he sent Abu Amir at the head of an army to Autas. He (i.e. Abu Amir) met Duraid bin As-Simma and Duraid was killed and Allah defeated his companions.
The Prophet (ﷺ) sent me with Abu 'Amir. Abu Amir was shot at his knee with an arrow which a man from Jushm had shot and fixed into his knee. I went to him and said, "O Uncle! Who shot you?" He pointed me out (his killer) saying, "That is my killer who shot me (with an arrow)."
So I headed towards him and overtook him, and when he saw me, he fled, and I followed him and started saying to him, "Won't you be ashamed? Won't you stop?" So that person stopped, and we exchanged two hits with the swords and I killed him.
Then I said to Abu 'Amir, "Allah has killed your killer." He said, "Take out this arrow." So I removed it, and water oozed out of the wound. He then said, "O son of my brother! Convey my compliments to the Prophet (ﷺ) and request him to ask Allah's Forgiveness for me."
Abu Amir made me his successor in commanding the people (i.e. troops). He survived for a short while and then died.
(Later) I returned and entered upon the Prophet (ﷺ) at his house, and found him lying in a bed made of stalks of date-palm leaves knitted with ropes, and on it there was bedding. The strings of the bed had their traces over his back and sides.
Then I told the Prophet (ﷺ) about our and Abu Amir's news and how he had said, "Tell him to ask for Allah's Forgiveness for me." The Prophet (ﷺ) asked for water, performed ablution and then raised hands, saying, "O Allah! Forgive `Ubaid Abu Amir." At that time I saw the whiteness of the Prophet's armpits.
The Prophet (ﷺ) then said, "O Allah, make him (i.e. Abu Amir) on the Day of Resurrection, superior to many of Your human creatures."
I said, "Will you ask Allah's Forgiveness for me?" (On that) the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O Allah, forgive the sins of `Abdullah bin Qais and admit him to a nice entrance (i.e. paradise) on the Day of Resurrection."
Abu Burda said, "One of the prayers was for Abu 'Amir and the other was for Abu Musa (i.e. `Abdullah bin Qais)."
Hadith - 354
Narrated Um Salama: The Prophet (ﷺ) came to me while there was an effeminate man sitting with me, and I heard him (i.e. the effeminate man) saying to `Abdullah bin Abi Umaiya, "O `Abdullah! See if Allah should make you conquer Ta'if tomorrow, then take the daughter of Ghailan (in marriage) as (she is so beautiful and fat that) she shows four folds of flesh when facing you, and eight when she turns her back."
The Prophet (ﷺ) then said, "These (effeminate men) should never enter upon you (O women!)."
Ibn Juraij said, "That effeminate man was called Heet." Narrated Hisham: The above narration and added extra, that at that time, the Prophet (ﷺ) was besieging Taif.
Hadith - 355
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Amr: When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) besieged Taif and could not conquer its people, he said, "We will return (to Medina) if Allah wills."
That distressed the Companions (of the Prophet (ﷺ) and they said, "Shall we go away without conquering it (i.e. the Fort of Taif)?" Once the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Let us return." Then the Prophet said (to them), "Fight tomorrow."
They fought and (many of them) got wounded, whereupon the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "We will return (to Medina) tomorrow if Allah wills." That delighted them, whereupon the Prophet (ﷺ) smiled. The sub-narrator, Sufyan said once, "(The Prophet) smiled."
Hadith - 356
Narrated Abu `Uthman: I heard from Sa`d, the first man who has thrown an arrow in Allah's Cause, and from Abu Bakra who jumped over the wall of the Ta'if Fort along with a few persons and came to the Prophet (ﷺ).
They both said, "We heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "If somebody claims to be the son of somebody other than his father knowingly, he will be denied Paradise (i.e. he will not enter Paradise).'"
Narrated Ma`mar from `Asim from Abu Al-`Aliya or Abu `Uthman An-Nahdi who said, "I heard Sa`d and Abu Bakra narrating from the Prophet (ﷺ)."
`Asim said, "I said (to him), 'Very trustworthy persons have narrated to you.' He said, 'Yes, one of them was the first to throw an arrow in Allah's Cause and the other came to the Prophet (ﷺ) in a group of thirty-three persons from Ta'if.'"
Hadith - 357
Narrated Abu Burda: Abu Musa said, "I was with the Prophet (ﷺ) when he was encamping at Al-Ji'rana (a place) between Mecca and Medina, and Bilal was with him. A bedouin came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said, "Won't you fulfill what you have promised me?"
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Rejoice (at what I will do for you)." The bedouin said, "(You have said to me) rejoice too often."
Then the Prophet (ﷺ) turned to me (i.e. Abu Musa) and Bilal in an angry mood and said, "The bedouin has refused the good tidings, so you both accept them." Bilal and I said, "We accept them."
Then the Prophet (ﷺ) asked for a drinking bowl containing water and washed his hands and face in it, and then took a mouthful of water and threw it therein saying (to us), "Drink (some of) it and pour (some) over your faces and chests and be happy at the good tidings." So they both took the drinking bowl and did as instructed.
Um Salama called from behind a screen, "Keep something (of the water) for your mother." So they left some of it for her.
Hadith - 358
Narrated Safwan bin Ya`la bin Umaiya: Ya`la used to say, "I wish I could see Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) at the time when he is being inspired divinely."
Ya`la added, "While the Prophet (ﷺ) was at Al-Ji'rana, shaded with a cloth sheet (in the form of a tent) and there were staying with him some of his companions under it, suddenly there came to him a bedouin wearing a cloak and perfumed extravagantly.
He said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! What is your opinion regarding a man who assumes the state of Ihram for `Umra wearing a cloak after applying perfume to his body?"
`Umar signalled with his hand to Ya`la to come (near). Ya`la came and put his head (underneath that cloth sheet) and saw the Prophet (ﷺ) red-faced, and when that state (of the Prophet (ﷺ)) was over, he said, "Where is he who as already asked me about the `Umra?"
The man was looked for and brought to the Prophet (ﷺ). The Prophet (ﷺ) said (to him), "As for the perfume you have applied to your body, wash it off your body) thrice, and take off your cloak, and then do in your `Umra the rites you do in your Hajj."
Hadith - 359
Narrated `Abdullah bin Zaid bin `Asim: When Allah gave to His Apostle the war booty on the day of Hunain, he distributed that booty amongst those whose hearts have been (recently) reconciled (to Islam), but did not give anything to the Ansar.
So they seemed to have felt angry and sad as they did not get the same as other people had got.
The Prophet (ﷺ) then delivered a sermon before them, saying, "O, the assembly of Ansar! Didn't I find you astray, and then Allah guided you on the Right Path through me? You were divided into groups, and Allah brought you together through me; you were poor and Allah made you rich through me?"
Whatever the Prophet (ﷺ) said, they (i.e. the Ansar) said, "Allah and his Apostle have more favours to do."
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "What stops you from answering the Messenger of Allah?" But whatever he said to them, they replied, "Allah and His Apostle have more favours to do."
The Prophet (ﷺ) then said, "If you wish you could say: 'You came to us in such-and-such state (at Medina).' Wouldn't you be willing to see the people go away with sheep and camels while you go with the Prophet (ﷺ) to your homes?
But for the migration, I would have been one of the Ansar, and if the people took their way through a valley or mountain pass, I would select the valley or mountain pass of the Ansar.
The Ansar are Shiar (i.e. those clothes which are in direct contact with the body and worn inside the other garments), and the people are Dithar (i.e. those clothes which are not in direct contact with the body and are worn over other garments).
No doubt, you will see other people favoured over you, so you should be patient till you meet me at the Tank (of Kauthar)."
Hadith - 360
Narrated Anas Bin Malik: When Allah gave Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) what he gave of the properties of the Hawazin tribe as a war booty, the Prophet (ﷺ) started giving some men 100 camels each.
The Ansar (then) said, "May Allah forgive Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as he gives to Quraish and leaves us, although our swords are still dribbling with the blood of Quraish."
Allah Apostle was informed of their statement, so he sent for the Ansar and gathered them in a leather tent, and did not call anybody else along with them.
When they all gathered, the Prophet (ﷺ) got up and said, "What is this talk being informed to me about you?"
The learned men amongst the Ansar said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Our chiefs did not say anything, but some people amongst us who are younger in age said, 'May Allah forgive Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as he gives (of the booty) to Quraish and leaves us, though our swords are still dribbling with their blood."
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I give to these men who have newly deserted heathenism (and embraced Islam) so as to attract their hearts.
Won't you be happy that the people take the wealth while you take the Prophet (ﷺ) with you to your homes? By Allah, what you are taking is better than whatever they are taking." They (i.e. the Ansar) said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! We are satisfied."
The Prophet (ﷺ) then said to them, "You will find others favored over you greatly, so be patient till you meet Allah and His Apostle, and I will be at the Tank then."
Anas added: But they did not remain patient.
Hadith - 361
Narrated Anas: When it was the day of the Conquest (of Mecca), Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) distributed the war booty amongst the people of Quraish which caused the Ansar to become angry.
So the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Won't you be pleased that the people take the worldly things and you take Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) with you?" They said, "Yes."
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If the people took their way through a valley or mountain pass, I would take my way through the Ansar's valley or mountain pass."
Hadith - 362
Narrated Anas: When it was the day of (the battle of) Hunain, the Prophet (ﷺ) confronted the tribe of Hawazin while there were ten-thousand (men) besides the Tulaqa' (i.e. those who had embraced Islam on the day of the Conquest of Mecca) with the Prophet (ﷺ).
When they (i.e. Muslims) fled, the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O the group of Ansar!" They replied, "Labbaik, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and Sadaik! We are under your command."
Then the Prophet (ﷺ) got down (from his mule) and said, "I am Allah's Slave and His Apostle." Then the pagans were defeated.
The Prophet (ﷺ) distributed the war booty amongst the Tulaqa and Muhajirin (i.e. Emigrants) and did not give anything to the Ansar.
So the Ansar spoke (i.e. were dissatisfied) and he called them and made them enter a leather tent and said, "Won't you be pleased that the people take the sheep and camels, and you take Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) along with you?"
The Prophet (ﷺ) added, "If the people took their way through a valley and the Ansar took their way through a mountain pass, then I would choose a mountain pass of the Ansar."
Hadith - 363
Narrated Anas: The Prophet (ﷺ) gathered some people of Ansar and said, "The People of Quraish are still close to their Pre-Islamic period of ignorance and have suffered a lot, and I want to help them and attract their hearts (by giving them the war booty).
Won't you be pleased that the people take the worldly things, and you take Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) with you to your homes?" They said, "Yes, (i.e. we are pleased with this distribution)."
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If the people took their way through a valley and the Ansar took their way through a mountain pass, then I would take the Ansar's valley or the Ansar's mountain pass."
Hadith - 364
Narrated `Abdullah: When the Prophet (ﷺ) distributed the war booty of Hunain, a man from the Ansar said, "He (i.e. the Prophet (ﷺ)) did not intend to please Allah in this distribution."
So I came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and informed him of that (statement) whereupon the color of his face changed and he said, "May Allah bestow His Mercy on Moses, for he was troubled with more than this, but he remained patient."
Hadith - 365
Narrated `Abdullah: When it was the day of Hunain, the Prophet (ﷺ) favored some people over some others (in the distribution of the booty). He gave Al-Aqra' one-hundred camels and gave Uyaina the same, and also gave other people (of Quraish).
A man said, "Allah's Pleasure was not the aim in this distribution." I said, "I will inform the Prophet (ﷺ) (about your statement)."
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "May Allah bestow Mercy on Moses, for he was troubled more this but he remained patient."
Hadith - 366
Narrated Anas Bin Malik: When it was the day (of the battle) of Hunain, the tributes of Hawazin and Ghatafan and others, along with their animals and offspring (and wives) came to fight against the Prophet (ﷺ).
The Prophet (ﷺ) had with him, ten thousand men and some of the Tulaqa. The companions fled, leaving the Prophet (ﷺ) alone.
The Prophet (ﷺ) then made two calls which were clearly distinguished from each other. He turned right and said, "O the group of Ansar!" They said, "Labbaik, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Rejoice, for we are with you!"
Then he turned left and said, "O the group of Ansar!" They said, "Labbaik! O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Rejoice, for we are with you!"
The Prophet (ﷺ) at that time, was riding on a white mule; then he dismounted and said, "I am Allah's Slave and His Apostle."
The infidels then were defeated, and on that day the Prophet (ﷺ) gained a large amount of booty which he distributed amongst the Muhajirin and the Tulaqa, and did not give anything to the Ansar.
The Ansar said, "When there is a difficulty, we are called, but the booty is given to other than us." The news reached the Prophet (ﷺ) and he gathered them in a leather tent and said, "What is this news reaching me from you, O the group of Ansar?" They kept silent.
He added, "O the group of Ansar! Won't you be happy that the people take the worldly things, and you take Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) to your homes reserving him for yourself?" They said, "Yes."
Then the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If the people took their way through a valley, and the Ansar took their way through a mountain pass, surely, I would take the Ansar's mountain pass."
Hisham said, "O Abu Hamza (i.e. Anas)! Did you witness that?" He replied, "And how could I be absent from him?"
Hadith - 367
Narrated Ibn `Umar: The Prophet (ﷺ) sent a Sariya towards Najd and I was in it, and our share from the booty amounted to twelve camels each, and we were given an additional camel each. So we returned with thirteen camels each.
Hadith - 368
Narrated Salim's father: The Prophet (ﷺ) sent Khalid bin Al-Walid to the tribe of Jadhima and Khalid invited them to Islam but they could not express themselves by saying, "Aslamna (i.e. we have embraced Islam)," but they started saying "Saba'na! Saba'na (i.e. we have come out of one religion to another)."
Khalid kept on killing (some of) them and taking (some of) them as captives and gave every one of us his Captive. When there came the day then Khalid ordered that each man (i.e. Muslim soldier) should kill his captive.
I said, "By Allah, I will not kill my captive, and none of my companions will kill his captive." When we reached the Prophet (ﷺ), we mentioned to him the whole story.
On that, the Prophet (ﷺ) raised both his hands and said twice, "O Allah! I am free from what Khalid has done."
Hadith - 369
Narrated `Ali: The Prophet (ﷺ) sent a Sariya under the command of a man from the Ansar and ordered the soldiers to obey him.
He (i.e. the commander) became angry and said, "Didn't the Prophet (ﷺ) order you to obey me?" They replied, "Yes." He said, "Collect fire-wood for me." So they collected it. He said, "Make a fire."
When they made it, he said, "Enter it (i.e. the fire)." So they intended to do that and started holding each other and saying, "We run towards (i.e. take refuge with) the Prophet (ﷺ) from the fire."
They kept on saying that till the fire was extinguished and the anger of the commander abated. When that news reached the Prophet (ﷺ) he said, "If they had entered it (i.e. the fire), they would not have come out of it till the Day of Resurrection. Obedience (to somebody) is required when he enjoins what is good."
Hadith - 370
Narrated Abu Burda: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) sent Abu Musa and Mu`adh bin Jabal to Yemen. He sent each of them to administer a province as Yemen consisted of two provinces.
The Prophet (ﷺ) said (to them), "Facilitate things for the people and do not make things difficult for them (Be kind and lenient (both of you) with the people, and do not be hard on them) and give the people good tidings and do not repulse them."
So each of them went to carry on his job. So when any one of them toured his province and happened to come near (the border of the province of) his companion, he would visit him and greet him.
Once Mu`adh toured that part of his state which was near (the border of the province of) his companion Abu Musa. Mu`adh came riding his mule till he reached Abu Musa and saw him sitting, and the people had gathered around him.
Behold! There was a man tied with his hands behind his neck. Mu`adh said to Abu Musa, "O `Abdullah bin Qais! What is this?" Abu Musa replied, "This man has reverted to Heathenism after embracing Islam."
Mu`adh said, "I will not dismount till he is killed." Abu Musa replied, "He has been brought for this purpose, so come down." Mu`adh said, "I will not dismount till he is killed." So Abu Musa ordered that he be killed, and he was killed.
Then Mu`adh dismounted and said, "O `Abdullah (bin Qais)! How do you recite the Qur'an?" Abu Musa said, "I recite the Qur'an regularly at intervals and piecemeal. How do you recite it O Mu`adh?"
Mu`adh said, "I sleep in the first part of the night and then get up after having slept for the time devoted for my sleep and then recite as much as Allah has written for me. So I seek Allah's Reward for both my sleep as well as my prayer (at night)."
Hadith - 371
Narrated Abi Burda: That Abu Musa Al-Ash`ari said that the Prophet (ﷺ) had sent him to Yemen, and he asked the Prophet (ﷺ) about certain (alcoholic) drink which used to be prepared there.
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "What are they?" Abu Musa said, "Al-Bit' and Al-Mizr?" He said, "Al-Bit is an alcoholic drink made from honey; and Al-Mizr is an alcoholic drink made from barley." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "All intoxicants are prohibited."
Hadith - 372
Narrated Abu Burda: That the Prophet (ﷺ) sent his (i.e. Abu Burda's) grandfather, Abu Musa and Mu`adh to Yemen and said to both of them, "Facilitate things for the people (Be kind and lenient) and do not make things difficult (for people), and give them good tidings, and do not repulse them and both of you should obey each other."
Abu Musa said, "O Allah's Prophet! In our land there is an alcoholic drink (prepared) from barley called Al-Mizr, and another (prepared) from honey, called Al-Bit." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "All intoxicants are prohibited."
Then both of them proceeded and Mu`adh asked Abu Musa, "How do you recite the Qur'an?" Abu Musa replied, "I recite it while I am standing, sitting or riding my riding animals, at intervals and piecemeal."
Mu`adh said, "But I sleep and then get up. I sleep and hope for Allah's Reward for my sleep as I seek His Reward for my night prayer."
Then he (i.e. Mu`adh) pitched a tent and they started visiting each other. Once Mu`adh paid a visit to Abu Musa and saw a chained man. Mu`adh asked, "What is this?" Abu Musa said, "(He was) a Jew who embraced Islam and has now turned apostate." Mu`adh said, "I will surely chop off his neck."
Hadith - 373
Narrated Abu Musa Al-Ash`ari: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) sent me (as a governor) to the land of my people, and I came while Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was encamping at a place called Al-Abtah.
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Have you made the intention to perform the Hajj, O `Abdullah bin Qais?" I replied, "Yes, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)!"
He said, "What did you say?" I replied, "I said, 'Labbaik' and expressed the same intention as yours." He said, "Have you driven the Hadi along with you?" I replied, "No, I did not drive the Hadi."
He said, "So perform the Tawaf of the Ka`ba and then the Sai between Safa and Marwa, and then finish the state of Ihram." So I did the same, and one of the women of (the tribe of) Banu Qais combed my hair. We continued follow in that tradition till the caliphate of `Umar.
Hadith - 374
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said to Mu`adh bin Jabal when he sent him to Yemen, "You will come to the people of Scripture, and when you reach them, invite them to testify that none has the right to be worshipped except Allah and that Muhammad is His Apostle.
And if they obey you in that, then tell them that Allah has enjoined on them five prayers to be performed every day and night.
And if they obey you in that, then tell them that Allah has enjoined on them Sadaqa (i.e. Zakat) to be taken from the rich amongst them and given to the poor amongst them.
And if they obey you in that, then be cautious! Don't take their best properties (as Zakat) and be afraid of the curse of an oppressed person, as there is no screen between his invocation and Allah."
Hadith - 375
Narrated `Amr bin Maimun: When Mu`adh arrived at Yemen, he led them (i.e. the people of Yemen) in the Fajr prayer wherein he recited: "Allah took Abraham as a Khalil." A man amongst the people said, "(How) glad the mother of Abraham is!"
(In another narration) `Amr said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) sent Mu`adh to Yemen and he (led the people) in the Fajr prayer and recited: "Allah took Abraham as a Khalil." A man behind him said, "(How) glad the mother of Abraham is."
Hadith - 376
Narrated Al-Bara: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) sent us to Yemen along with Khalid bin Al-Walid. Later on, he sent `Ali bin Abi Talib in his place. The Prophet (ﷺ) said to `Ali, "Give Khalid's companions the choice of either staying with you (in Yemen) or returning to Medina."
I was one of those who stayed with him (i.e. `Ali) and got several Awaq (of gold from the war booty).
Hadith - 377
Narrated Buraida: The Prophet (ﷺ) sent `Ali to Khalid to bring the Khumus (of the booty) and I hated `Ali, and `Ali had taken a bath (after a sexual act with a slave-girl from the Khumus). I said to Khalid, "Don't you see this (i.e. `Ali)?"
When we reached the Prophet (ﷺ) I mentioned that to him. He said, "O Buraida! Do you hate `Ali?" I said, "Yes." He said, "Do you hate him, for he deserves more than that from the Khumus."
Hadith - 378
Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri: `Ali bin Abi Talib sent a piece of gold not yet taken out of its ore, in a tanned leather container to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ).
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) distributed that amongst four Persons: 'Uyaina bin Badr, Aqra bin H`Abis, Zaid Al-Khail and the fourth was either Alqama or Amir bin at-Tufail. On that, one of his companions said, "We are more deserving of this (gold) than these (persons)."
When that news reached the Prophet (ﷺ), he said, "Don't you trust me though I am the truth worthy man of the One in the Heavens, and I receive the news of Heaven (i.e. Divine Inspiration) both in the morning and in the evening?"
There got up a man with sunken eyes, raised cheek bones, raised forehead, a thick beard, a shaven head and a waist sheet that was tucked up and he said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Be afraid of Allah."
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Woe to you! Am I not of all the people of the earth the most entitled to fear Allah?" Then that man went away.
Khalid bin Al-Walid said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Shall I chop his neck off?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "No, for he may offer prayers."
Khalid said, "Numerous are those who offer prayers and say by their tongues (i.e. mouths) what is not in their hearts." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "I have not been ordered (by Allah) to search the hearts of the people or cut open their bellies."
Then the Prophet looked at him (i.e. that man) while the latter was going away and said, "From the offspring of this man there will come out (people) who will recite the Qur'an continuously and elegantly but it will not exceed their throats. (They will neither understand it nor act upon it).
They would go out of the religion (i.e. Islam) as an arrow goes through a game's body." I think he also said, "If I should be present at their time, I would kill them as the nation of Thamud were killed."
Hadith - 379
Narrated 'Ata: Jabir said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) ordered `Ali to keep the state of Ihram."
Jabir added, "Ali bin Abi Talib returned (from Yemen) when he was a governor (of Yemen). The Prophet (ﷺ) said to him, 'With what intention have you assumed the state of Ihram?'
`Ali said, "I have assumed Ihram with an intention as that of the Prophet." Then the Prophet (ﷺ) said (to him), 'Offer a Hadi and keep the state of Ihram in which you are now.' `Ali slaughtered a Hadi on his behalf.
Hadith - 380
Narrated Ibn `Umar: The Prophet (ﷺ) assumed the state of Ihram for Umra and Hajj, and we to assumed it for Hajj with him.
When we arrived at Mecca, the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Whoever does not possess a Hadi should regard his Ihram for Umra only." The Prophet (ﷺ) had a Hadi with him.
`Ali bin Abi Talib came to us from Yemen with the intention of performing Hajj. The Prophet (ﷺ) said (to him), "With what intention have you assumed the Ihram, for your wife is with us?"
`Ali said, "I assumed the Ihram with the same intention as that of the Prophet (ﷺ)." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Keep on the state of Ihram, as we have got the Hadi."