Hadith - 381
Narrated Jarir: In the Pre-Islamic Period of Ignorance, there was a house called Dhul-Khalasa or Al-Ka`ba Al-Yamaniya or Al-Ka`ba Ash-Shamiya. The Prophet (ﷺ) said to me, "Won't you relieve me from Dhul-Khalasa?"
So I set out with one-hundred-and-fifty riders, and we dismantled it and killed whoever was present there. Then I came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and informed him, and he invoked good upon us and Al-Ahmas (tribe).
Hadith - 382
Narrated Qais: Jarir said to me, 'The Prophet (ﷺ) said to me, "Won't you relieve me from Dhul-Khalasa?" And that was a house (in Yemen belonging to the tribe of) Khatham called Al-Ka`ba Al Yamaniya. I proceeded with one-hundred-and-fifty cavalry from Ahmas (tribe) who were horse riders.
I used not to sit firm on horses, so the Prophet (ﷺ) stroke me over my chest till I saw the mark of his fingers over my chest, and then he said, "O Allah! Make him (i.e. Jarir) firm and one who guides others and is guided on the right path."
So Jarir proceeded to it, dismantled and burnt it, and then sent a messenger to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ).
The messenger of Jarir said (to the Prophet), "By Him Who sent you with the Truth, I did not leave that place till it was like a scabby camel." The Prophet (ﷺ) blessed the horses of Ahmas and their men five times.'
Hadith - 383
Narrated Qais: Jarir said, 'Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said to me, "Won't you relieve me from Dhul-Khalasa?" I replied, "Yes, (I will relieve you)." So I proceeded along with one-hundred and fifty cavalry from Ahmas tribe who were skillful in riding horses.
I used not to sit firm over horses, so I informed the Prophet (ﷺ) of that, and he stroke my chest with his hand till I saw the marks of his hand over my chest and he said, "O Allah! Make him firm and one who guides others and is guided (on the right path)." Since then I have never fallen from a horse.
Dhul-Khalasa was a house in Yemen belonging to the tribe of Khatham and Bajila, and in it there were idols which were worshipped, and it was called Al-Ka`ba.'
Jarir went there, burnt it with fire and dismantled it. When Jarir reached Yemen, there was a man who used to foretell and give good omens by casting arrows of divination.
Someone said to him, "The messenger of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) is present here, and if he should get hold of you, he would chop off your neck."
One day while he was using them (i.e. arrows of divination), Jarir stopped there and said to him, "Break them (i.e. the arrows) and testify that None has the right to be worshipped except Allah, or else I will chop off your neck." So the man broke those arrows and testified that none has the right to be worshipped except Allah.
Then Jarir sent a man called Abu Artata from the tribe of Ahmas to the Prophet (ﷺ) to convey the good news (of destroying Dhul-Khalasa).
So when the messenger reached the Prophet (ﷺ), he said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! By Him Who sent you with the Truth, I did not leave it till it was like a scabby camel."
Then the Prophet (ﷺ) blessed the horses of Ahmas and their men five times.
Hadith - 384
Narrated Abu `Uthman: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) sent `Amr bin Al-`As as the commander of the troops of Dhat-us-Salasil. `Amr bin Al-`As said, "(On my return) I came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said, 'Which people do you love most?' He replied, '`Aisha.'
I said, 'From amongst the men?' He replied, 'Her father (Abu Bakr)'. I said, 'Whom (do you love) next?' He replied, '`Umar.' Then he counted the names of many men, and I became silent for fear that he might regard me as the last of them."
Hadith - 385
Narrated Jarir: While I was at Yemen, I met two men from Yemen called Dhu Kala and Dhu `Amr, and I started telling them about Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). Dhu `Amr said to me, "If what you are saying about your friend (i.e. the Prophet (ﷺ)) is true, then he has died three days ago."
Then both of them accompanied me to Medina, and when we had covered some distance on the way to Medina, we saw some riders coming from Medina. We asked them and they said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) has died and Abu Bakr has been appointed as the Caliph and the people are in a good state."
Then they said, "Tell your friend (Abu Bakr) that we have come (to visit him), and if Allah wills, we will come again." So they both returned to Yemen.
When I told Abu Bakr their statement, he said to me, "I wish you had brought them (to me)."
Afterwards I met Dhu `Amr, and he said to me, "O Jarir! You have done a favor to me and I am going to tell you something, i.e. you, the nation of 'Arabs, will remain prosperous as long as you choose and appoint another chief whenever a former one is dead.
But if authority is obtained by the power of the sword, then the rulers will become kings who will get angry as kings get angry, and will be delighted as kings get delighted."
Hadith - 386
Narrated Wahab bin Kaisan: Jabir bin `Abdullah said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) sent troops to the sea coast and appointed Abu 'Ubaida bin Al-Jarrah as their commander, and they were 300 (men).
We set out, and we had covered some distance on the way, when our journey food ran short. So Abu 'Ubaida ordered that all the food present with the troops be collected, and it was collected.
Our journey food was dates, and Abu Ubaida kept on giving us our daily ration from it little by little (piecemeal) till it decreased to such an extent that we did not receive except a date each."
I asked (Jabir), "How could one date benefit you?" He said, "We came to know its value when even that finished."
Jabir added, "Then we reached the sea (coast) where we found a fish like a small mountain. The people (i.e. troops) ate of it for 18 nights (i.e. days).
Then Abu 'Ubaida ordered that two of its ribs be fixed on the ground (in the form of an arch) and that a she-camel be ridden and passed under them. So it passed under them without touching them."
Hadith - 387
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) sent us who were three-hundred riders under the command of Abu Ubaida bin Al-Jarrah in order to watch the caravan of the Quraish pagans.
We stayed at the seashore for half a month and were struck with such severe hunger that we ate even the Khabat (i.e. the leaves of the Salam, a thorny desert tree), and because of that, the army was known as Jaish-ul-Khabat.
Then the sea threw out an animal (i.e. a fish) called Al-`Anbar and we ate of that for half a month, and rubbed its fat on our bodies till our bodies returned to their original state (i.e. became strong and healthy).
Abu Ubaida took one of its ribs, fixed it on the ground; then he went to the tallest man of his companions (to let him pass under the rib).
Once Sufyan said, "He took a rib from its parts and fixed it, and then took a man and camel and they passed from underneath it (without touching it)."
Jabir added: There was a man amongst the people who slaughtered three camels and then slaughtered another three camels and then slaughtered another three camels, and then Abu 'Ubaida forbade him to do so.
Narrated Abu Salih: Qais bin Sa`d said to his father, "I was present in the army and the people were struck with severe hunger." He said, "You should have slaughtered (camels) (for them)."
Qais said, "I did slaughter camels but they were hungry again." He said, "You should have slaughtered (camels) again."
Qais said, "I did slaughter (camels) again but the people felt hungry again." He said, "You should have slaughtered (camels) again."
Qais said, "I did slaughter (camels) again, but the people again felt hungry." He said, "You should have slaughtered (camels) again." Qais said, "But I was forbidden (by Abu 'Ubaida this time)."
Hadith - 388
Narrated Jabir: We set out in the army of Al-Khabat and Abu Ubaida was the commander of the troops. We were struck with severe hunger, and the sea threw out a dead fish the like of which we had never seen, and it was called Al-`Anbar. We ate of it for half a month.
Abu Ubaida took (and fixed) one of its bones and a rider passed underneath it (without touching it).
(Jabir added:) Abu 'Ubaida said (to us), "Eat (of that fish)." When we arrived at Medina, we informed the Prophet (ﷺ) about that, and he said, "Eat, for it is food Allah has brought out for you, and feed us if you have some of it." So some of them gave him (of that fish) and he ate it.
Hadith - 389
Narrated Abu Huraira: That during the Hajj in which the Prophet (ﷺ) had made Abu Bakr As-Siddiq as chief of the Hajj before the Hajj-ul-Wida,' on the day of Nahr, Abu Bakr sent him along with a group of persons to announce to the people, "No pagan is permitted to perform Hajj after this year, and nobody is permitted to perform the Tawaf of the Ka`ba naked."
Hadith - 390
Narrated Al-Bara: The last Surah which was revealed in full was Bara'a (i.e. Surah-at-Tauba), and the last Surah (i.e. part of a Surah) which was revealed was the last Verses of Surah-an-Nisa': "They ask you for a legal decision. Say: Allah directs (thus) about those who have no descendants or ascendants as heirs." (Surah 4: Ayah 177)
Hadith - 391
Narrated `Imran bin Husain: A delegation from Banu Tamim came to the Prophet (ﷺ). The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Accept the good tidings, O Banu Tamim!" They said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! You have given us good tidings, so give us (something)."
Signs of displeasure appeared on his face. Then another delegation from Yemen came and he said (to them), "Accept the good tidings, for Banu Tamim refuses to accept them." They replied, "We have accepted them, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)."
Hadith - 392
Narrated Abu Huraira: I have not ceased to like Banu Tamim ever since I heard of three qualities attributed to them by Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)
(He said): They, out of all my followers, will be the strongest opponent of Ad-Dajjal; `Aisha had a slave-girl from them, and the Prophet (ﷺ) told her to manumit her as she was from the descendants of (the Prophet) Ishmael; and when their Zakat was brought, the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "This is the Zakat of my people."
Hadith - 393
Narrated Ibn Abi Mulaika: `Abdullah bin Az-Zubair said that a group of riders belonging to Banu Tamim came to the Prophet (ﷺ).
Abu Bakr said (to the Prophet (ﷺ)), "Appoint Al-Qa'qa bin Ma'bad bin Zurara as (their) ruler." `Umar said (to the Prophet (ﷺ)), "No! But appoint Al-Aqra bin Habis."
Thereupon Abu Bakr said (to `Umar), "You just wanted to oppose me." `Umar replied, "I did not want to oppose you."
So both of them argued so much that their voices became louder, and then the following Divine Verses were revealed in that connection: "O you who believe! Do not be forward in the presence of Allah and His Apostle..." (till the end of Verse) (Surah 49: Ayah 1)
Hadith - 394
Narrated Abu Jamra: I said to Ibn `Abbas, "I have an earthenware pot containing Nabidh (i.e. water and dates or grapes) for me, and I drink of it while it is sweet. If I drink much of it and stay with the people for a long time, I get afraid that they may discover it (for I will appear as if I were drunk)."
Ibn `Abbas said, 'A delegation of `Abdul-Qais came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and he said, "Welcome, O people! Neither will you have disgrace nor will you regret."
They said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! There are the Mudar pagans between you and us, so we cannot come to you except in the sacred months. So please teach us some orders on acting upon which we will enter Paradise. Besides, we will preach that to our people who are behind us."
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I order you to do four things and forbid you from four things.
(I order you): To believe in Allah...Do you know what is to believe in Allah? That is to testify that None has the right to be worshipped except Allah.
I order you also to offer prayers perfectly, to pay Zakat, and to fast the month of Ramadan and to give the Khumus (i.e. one-fifth of the booty) (for Allah's Sake).
I forbid you from four other things (i.e. the wine that is prepared in) Ad-Dubba, An-Naqir, Al-Hantam and Al-Muzaffat."'
Hadith - 395
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: The delegation of `Abdul Qais came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). We belong to the tribe of Rabi`a. The infidels of Mudar tribe intervened between us and you, so that we cannot come to you except in the Sacred Months, so please order us some things we may act on, and invite those left behind to act on."
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I order you to observe four things and forbid you from four things.
(I order you) to believe in Allah, i.e. to testify that None has the right to be worshipped except Allah."
The Prophet (ﷺ) pointed with his finger, indicating one, and added, "To offer prayers perfectly, to give Zakat, and to give one-fifth of the booty you win (for Allah's Sake).
I forbid you to use Ad-Dubba', An-Naqir, Al-Hantam and Al-Muzaffat (Utensils used for preparing alcoholic liquors and drinks)."
Hadith - 396
Narrated Bukair: That Kuraib, the freed slave of Ibn `Abbas, told him that Ibn `Abbas, `Abdur-Rahman bin Azhar and Al-Miswar bin Makhrama sent him to `Aisha saying, "Pay her our greetings and ask her about our offering of the two-rak`at after `Asr Prayer, and tell her that we have been informed that you offer these two rak`at while we have heard that the Prophet (ﷺ) had forbidden their offering."
Ibn `Abbas said, "I and `Umar used to beat the people for their offering them."
Kuraib added, "I entered upon her and delivered their message to her. She said, 'Ask Um Salama.' So, I informed them (of `Aisha's answer) and they sent me to Um Salama for the same purpose as they sent me to `Aisha.
Um Salama replied, 'I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) forbidding the offering of these two rak`at. Once the Prophet (ﷺ) offered the `Asr prayer, and then came to me. And at that time some Ansari women from the Tribe of Banu Haram were with me.
Then (the Prophet (ﷺ)) offered those two rak`at, and I sent my (lady) servant to him, saying, 'Stand beside him and say (to him): Um Salama says, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Didn't I hear you forbidding the offering of these two rak`at (after the `Asr prayer) yet I see you offering them?" And if he beckons to you with his hand, then wait behind.'
So the lady slave did that and the Prophet (ﷺ) beckoned her with his hand, and she stayed behind, and when the Prophet (ﷺ) finished his prayer, he said, 'O the daughter of Abu Umaiya (i.e. Um Salama), you were asking me about these two rak`at after the `Asr prayer.
In fact, some people from the tribe of `Abdul Qais came to me to embrace Islam and busied me so much that I did not offer the two rak`at which were offered after Zuhr compulsory prayer, and these two rak`at (you have seen me offering) make up for those.'"
Hadith - 397
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: The first Friday (i.e. Jumua) prayer offered after the Friday Prayer offered at the Mosque of Allah's Apostle was offered at the mosque of `Abdul Qais situated at Jawathi, that is a village at Al-Bahrain.
Hadith - 398
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) sent some cavalry towards Najd and they brought a man from the tribe of Banu Hanifa who was called Thumama bin Uthal. They fastened him to one of the pillars of the Mosque.
The Prophet (ﷺ) went to him and said, "What have you got, O Thumama?" He replied, "I have got a good thought, O Muhammad! If you should kill me, you would kill a person who has already killed somebody, and if you should set me free, you would do a favor to one who is grateful, and if you want property, then ask me whatever wealth you want."
He was left till the next day when the Prophet (ﷺ) said to him, "What have you got, O Thumama?" He said, "What I told you, i.e. if you set me free, you would do a favor to one who is grateful."
The Prophet (ﷺ) left him till the day after, when he said, "What have you got, O Thumama?" He said, "I have got what I told you." On that, the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Release Thumama."
So he (i.e. Thumama) went to a garden of date-palm trees near to the Mosque, took a bath and then entered the Mosque and said, "I testify that None has the right to be worshipped except Allah, and also testify that Muhammad is His Apostle!
By Allah, O Muhammad! There was no face on the surface of the earth most disliked by me than yours, but now your face has become the most beloved face to me.
By Allah, there was no religion most disliked by me than yours, but now it is the most beloved religion to me.
By Allah, there was no town most disliked by me than your town, but now it is the most beloved town to me. Your cavalry arrested me (at the time) when I was intending to perform the `Umra. And now what do you think?"
The Prophet (ﷺ) gave him good tidings (congratulated him) and ordered him to perform the `Umra.
So when he came to Mecca, someone said to him, "You have become a Sabian?" Thumama replied, "No! By Allah, I have embraced Islam with Muhammad, Apostle of Allah. No, by Allah! Not a single grain of wheat will come to you from Yamamah unless the Prophet (ﷺ) gives his permission."
Hadith - 399
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: Musailima Al-Kadhdhab came during the lifetime of the Prophet (ﷺ) and started saying, "If Muhammad gives me the rule after him, I will follow him."
And he came to Medina with a great number of the people of his tribe. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) went to him in the company of Thabit bin Qais bin Shammas, and at that time, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had a stick of a date-palm tree in his hand.
When he (i.e. the Prophet (ﷺ)) stopped near Musailima while the latter was amidst his companions, he said to him, "If you ask me for this piece (of stick), I will not give it to you, and Allah's Order you cannot avoid, (but you will be destroyed), and if you turn your back from this religion, then Allah will destroy you.
And I think you are the same person who was shown to me in my dream, and this is Thabit bin Qais who will answer your questions on my behalf." Then the Prophet (ﷺ) went away from him.
I asked about the statement of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ): "You seem to be the same person who was shown to me in my dream," and Abu Huraira informed me that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "When I was sleeping, I saw (in a dream) two bangles of gold on my hands and that worried me.
And then I was inspired Divinely in the dream that I should blow on them, so I blew on them and both the bangles flew away. And I interpreted it that two liars (who would claim to be prophets) would appear after me. One of them has proved to be Al-Ansi, and the other Musailima."
Hadith - 400
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "While I was sleeping, I was given the treasures of the earth and two gold bangles were put in my hands, and I did not like that, but I received the inspiration that I should blow on them, and I did so, and both of them vanished.
I interpreted it as referring to the two liars between whom I am present; the ruler of Sana and the Ruler of Yamamah."
Hadith - 401
Narrated Abu Raja' Al-Utaridi: We used to worship stones, and when we found a better stone than the first one, we would throw the first one and take the latter, but if we could not get a stone, then we would collect some earth (i.e. soil) and then bring a sheep and milk that sheep over it, and perform the Tawaf around it.
When the month of Rajab came, we used (to stop the military actions), calling this month the iron remover, for we used to remove and throw away the iron parts of every spear and arrow in the month of Rajab.
Abu Raja' added: When the Prophet (ﷺ) was sent with (Allah's) Message, I was a boy working as a shepherd of my family camels. When we heard the news about the appearance of the Prophet (ﷺ), we ran to the fire, i.e. to Musailima al-Kadhdhab.
Hadith - 402
Narrated Ubaidullah bin `Abdullah bin `Utba: We were informed that Musailima Al-Kadhdhab had arrived in Medina and stayed in the house of the daughter of Al-Harith. The daughter of Al-Harith bin Kuraiz was his wife and she was the mother of `Abdullah bin 'Amir.
There came to him Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) accompanied by Thabit bin Qais bin Shammas who was called the orator of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had a stick in his hand then. The Prophet (ﷺ) stopped before Musailima and spoke to him.
Musailima said to him, "If you wish, we would not interfere between you and the rule, on condition that the rule will be ours after you..."
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If you asked me for this stick, I would not give it to you. I think you are the same person who was shown to me in a dream. And this is Thabit bin Al-Qais who will answer you on my behalf." The Prophet (ﷺ) then went away.
I asked Ibn `Abbas about the dream Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had mentioned. Ibn `Abbas said, 'Someone told me that the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "When I was sleeping, I saw in a dream that two gold bangles were put in my hands, and that frightened me and made me dislike them.
Then I was allowed to blow on them, and when I blew at them, both of them flew. Then I interpreted them as two liars who would appear." One of them was Al-`Ansi who was killed by Fairuz in Yemen, and the other was Musailima Al-Kadhdhab.'
Hadith - 403
Narrated Hudhaifa: Al-`Aqib and Saiyid, the rulers of Najran, came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) with the intention of doing Lian.
One of them said to the other, "Do not do (this Lian) for, by Allah, if he is a Prophet and we do this Lian, neither we, nor our offspring after us will be successful."
Then both of them said (to the Prophet (ﷺ)), "We will give what you should ask but you should send a trustworthy man with us, and do not send any person with us but an honest one."
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I will send an honest man who is really trustworthy." Then every one of the companions of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) wished to be that one. Then the Prophet said, "Get up, O Abu 'Ubaida bin Al-Jarrah." When he got up, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "This is the Trustworthy man of this (Muslim) nation."
Hadith - 404
Narrated Hudhaifa: The people of Najran came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said, "Send an honest man to us." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I will send to you an honest man who is really trustworthy."
Everyone of the (Muslim) people hoped to be that one. The Prophet (ﷺ) then sent Abu Ubaida bin Al-Jarrah.
Hadith - 405
Narrated Anas: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Every nation has an Amin (i.e. the most honest man), and the Amin of this nation is Abu 'Ubaida bin Al-Jarrah."
Hadith - 406
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said to me, "If the revenue of Al-Bahrain should come, I will give you so much and so much," repeating "so much" thrice. But the revenue of Al-Bahrain did not come till Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had died.
When the revenue came during the rule of Abu Bakr, Abu Bakr ordered an announcer to announce, "Whoever had any debt or promise due upon the Prophet (ﷺ) should present himself to me (i.e. Abu Bakr)."
I came to Abu Bakr and informed him that the Prophet (ﷺ) had said (to me), "If the revenue of Al-Bahrain should come, I will give you so much and so much," repeating "so much" thrice. So Abu Bakr gave me.
(In another narration Jabir said) I met Abu Bakr after that and asked him (to give me what the Prophet (ﷺ) had promised me) but he did not give me. I again went to him but he did not give me. I again went to him (for the third time) but he did not give me.
On that, I said to him, "I came to you but you did not give me, then I came to you and you did not give me, and then again I came to you, but you did not give me; so you should either give me or else you are like a miserly to me.
On that, Abu Bakr said, "Do you say, 'You are like a miserly to me?' There is no worse disease than miserliness." Abu Bakr said it thrice and added, "Whenever I refused to give you, I had the intention of giving you."
(In another narration) Jabir bin `Abdullah said, 'I went to Abu Bakr (and he gave me a handful of money) and told me to count it, I counted and found it five-hundred, and then Abu Bakr said (to me), "Take the same amount twice."'
Hadith - 407
Narrated Abu Musa: My brother and I came from Yemen (to Medina) and remained for some time, thinking that Ibn Masud and his mother belonged to the family of the Prophet (ﷺ) because of their frequent entrance (upon the Prophet (ﷺ)) and their being attached to him.
Hadith - 408
Narrated Zahdam: When Abu Musa arrived (at Kufa as a governor) he honored this family of Jarm (by paying them a visit). I was sitting near to him, and he was eating chicken as his lunch, and there was a man sitting amongst the people.
Abu Musa invited the man to the lunch, but the latter said, "I saw chickens (eating something dirty) so I consider them unclean."
Abu Musa said, "Come on! I saw the Prophet (ﷺ) eating it (i.e. chicken)." The man said, "I have taken an oath that I will not eat (chicken)."
Abu Musa said, "Come on! I will tell you about your oath. We, a group of Al-Ash`ariyin people, went to the Prophet (ﷺ) and asked him to give us something to ride, but the Prophet (ﷺ) refused.
Then we asked him for the second time to give us something to ride, but the Prophet (ﷺ) took an oath that he would not give us anything to ride.
After a while, some camels of booty were brought to the Prophet (ﷺ) and he ordered that five camels be given to us. When we took those camels we said, "We have made the Prophet (ﷺ) forget his oath, and we will not be successful after that."
So I went to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said, "O Allah's Apostle! You took an oath that you would not give us anything to ride, but you have given us." He said, "Yes, for if I take an oath, and later I see a better solution than that, I act on the later (and give the expiation of that oath)."
Hadith - 409
Narrated `Imran bin Husain: The people of Banu Tamim came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and he said, "Be glad (i.e. have good tidings), O Banu Tamim!" They said, "As you have given us good tidings then give us (some material things)." On that, the features of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) changed (i.e. he took it ill).
Then some people from Yemen came, and the Prophet (ﷺ) said (to them), "Accept good tidings as Banu Tamim have not accepted them." They said, "We accept them, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)."
Hadith - 410
Narrated Abu Mas`ud: The Prophet (ﷺ) beckoned with his hand towards Yemen and said, "Belief is there. The harshness and mercilessness are the qualities of those farmers etc, who are busy with their camels and pay no attention to the religion (is towards the east) from where the side of the head of Satan will appear; those are the tribes of Rabi`a and Mudar."
Hadith - 411
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The people of Yemen have come to you and they are more gentle and soft-hearted. Belief is Yemenite and Wisdom is Yemenite, while pride and haughtiness are the qualities of the owners of camels (i.e. bedouins). Calmness and solemnity are the characters of the owners of sheep."
Hadith - 412
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Belief is Yemenite, while afflictions appear from there (the east) from where the side of the head of Satan will appear."
Hadith - 413
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The people of Yemen have come to you, and they are more soft-hearted and gentle-hearted people. The capacity for understanding religion is Yemenite and Wisdom is Yemenite."
Hadith - 414
Narrated Alqama: We were sitting with Ibn Mas`ud when Khabbab came and said, "O Abu `Abdur-Rahman! Can these young fellows recite Qur'an as you do?" Ibn Mas`ud said, "If you wish, I can order one of them to recite (Qur'an) for you ." Khabbab replied, "Yes."
Ibn Mas`ud said, "Recite, O 'Alqama!" On that, Zaid bin Hudair, the brother of Ziyad bin Hudair said, (to Ibn Mas`ud), "Why have you ordered 'Alqama to recite, though he does not recite better than we?"
Ibn Mas`ud said, "If you like, I would tell you what the Prophet (ﷺ) said about your nation and his (i.e. 'Alqama's) nation." So I recited fifty Verses from Surah Maryam.
`Abdullah (bin Mas`ud) said to Khabbab, "What do you think (about 'Alqama's recitation)?" Khabbab said, "He has recited well." `Abdullah said, "Whatever I recite, 'Alqama recites."
Then `Abdullah turned towards Khabbab and saw that he was wearing a gold ring, whereupon he said, "Hasn't the time for its throwing away come yet?" Khabbab said, "You will not see me wearing it after today," and he threw it away.
Hadith - 415
Narrated Abu Huraira: Tufail bin `Amr came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said, "The Daus (nation) have perished as they disobeyed and refused to accept Islam. So invoke Allah against them." But the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O Allah! Give guidance to the Daus (tribe) and bring them (to Islam)."
Hadith - 416
Narrated Abu Huraira: When I came to the Prophet (ﷺ), I said on my way, "O what a long tedious tiresome night; nevertheless, it has rescued me from the place of Heathenism."
A slave of mine ran away on the way. When I reached the Prophet (ﷺ), I gave him the oath of allegiance (for Islam), and while I was sitting with him, suddenly the slave appeared.
The Prophet (ﷺ) said to me, "O Abu Huraira! Here is your slave." I said, "He (i.e. the slave) is (free) for Allah's Sake," and manumitted him.
Hadith - 417
Narrated `Adi bin Hatim: We came to `Umar in a delegation (during his rule). He started calling the men one by one, calling each by his name. (As he did not call me early) I said to him, "Don't you know me, O chief of the Believers?"
He said, "Yes, you embraced Islam when they (i.e. your people) disbelieved; you have come (to the Truth) when they ran away; you fulfilled your promises when they broke theirs; and you recognized it (i.e. the Truth of Islam) when they denied it." On that, `Adi said, "I therefore don't care."
Hadith - 418
Narrated `Aisha: We went out with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) during Hajjat-ul-Wada` and we assumed the Ihram for `Umra.
Then Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said to us, "Whoever has got the Hadi should assume the Ihram for Hajj and `Umra, and should not finish his Ihram till he has performed both (`Umra and Hajj)."
I arrived at Mecca along with him (i.e. the Prophet (ﷺ)) while I was menstruating, so I did not perform the Tawaf around the Ka`ba or between Safa and Marwa.
I informed Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) about that and he said, "Undo your braids and comb your hair, and then assume the Ihram for Hajj and leave the `Umra."
I did so, and when we performed and finished the Hajj, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) sent me to at-Tan`im along with (my brother) `Abdur-Rahman bin Abu Bakr As-Siddiq to perform the `Umra. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "This `Umra is in lieu of your missed `Umra."
Those who had assumed the Ihram for `Umra performed the Tawaf around the Ka`ba and between Safa and Marwa, and then finished their Ihram, and on their return from Mina, they performed another Tawaf (around the Ka`ba and between Safa and Marwa), but those who combined their Hajj and `Umra, performed only one Tawaf (between Safa and Marwa) (for both).
Hadith - 419
Narrated Ibn Juraij: `Ata' said, "Ibn `Abbas said, 'If he (i.e. the one intending to perform `Umra) has performed the Tawaf around the Ka`ba, his Ihram is considered to have finished.'"
I said, "What proof does Ibn `Abbas has as to this saying?" `Ata' said, "(The proof is taken) from the Statement of Allah: "And afterwards they are brought for sacrifice unto Ancient House (Ka`ba at Mecca)" (Surah 22: Ayah 33) and from the order of the Prophet (ﷺ) to his companions to finish their Ihram during Hajjat-ul-Wada`."
I said (to `Ata'), "That (i.e. finishing the Ihram) was after coming from `Arafat." `Ata' said, "Ibn `Abbas used to allow it before going to `Arafat (after finishing the `Umra) and after coming from it (i.e. after performing the Hajj)."
Hadith - 420
Narrated Abu Musa Al-Ash`ari: I came to the Prophet (ﷺ) at a place called Al-Batha'. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Did you assume the Ihram for Hajj?" I said, "Yes."
He said, "How did you express your intention (for performing Hajj)?" I said, "Labbaik (i.e. I am ready) to assume the Ihram with the same intention as that of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)."
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Perform the Tawaf around the Ka`ba and between Safa and Marwa, and then finish your Ihram." So I performed the Tawaf around the Ka`ba and between Safa and Marwa, and then I came to a woman from the tribe of Qais who removed the lice from my head.
Hadith - 421
Narrated Hafsa (the wife of the Prophet): The Prophet (ﷺ) ordered all his wives to finish their Ihram during the year of Hajjat-ul-Wada`. On that, I asked the Prophet (ﷺ), "What stops you from finishing your Ihram?"
He said, "I have matted my hair and garlanded my Hadi. So I will not finish my Ihram unless I have slaughtered my Hadi."
Hadith - 422
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: A woman from the tribe of Khath'am asked for the verdict of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (regarding something) during Hajjat-ul-Wada` while Al-Fadl bin `Abbas was the companion-rider behind Allah's Messenger (ﷺ).
She asked, "Allah's ordained obligation (i.e. compulsory Hajj) enjoined on His slaves has become due on my old father who cannot sit firmly on the riding animal. Will it be sufficient if I perform the Hajj on his behalf?" He said, "Yes."
Hadith - 423
Narrated (Abdullah) bin `Umar: The Prophet (ﷺ) arrived (at Mecca) in the year of the Conquest (of Mecca) while Usama was riding behind him on (his she-camel)' Al-Qaswa'. Bilal and `Uthman bin Talha were accompanying him.
When he made his she-camel kneel down near the Ka`ba, he said to `Uthman, "Get us the key (of the Ka`ba)." He brought the key to him and opened the gate (of the Ka`ba) for him. The Prophet, Usama, Bilal and `Uthman (bin Talha) entered the Ka`ba and then closed the gate behind them (from inside).
The Prophet (ﷺ) stayed there for a long period and then came out. The people rushed to get in, but I went in before them and found Bilal standing behind the gate, and I said to him, "Where did the Prophet (ﷺ) pray?" He said, "He prayed between those two front pillars."
The Ka`ba was built on six pillars, arranged in two rows, and he prayed between the two pillars of the front row leaving the gate of the Ka`ba at his back and facing (in prayer) the wall which faces one when one enters the Ka`ba. Between him and that wall (was the distance of about three cubits).
But I forgot to ask Bilal about the number of rak`at the Prophet (ﷺ) had prayed. There was a red piece of marble at the place where he (i.e. the Prophet) had offered the prayer.
Hadith - 424
Narrated `Aisha (the wife of the Prophet): Safiya bint Huyai, the wife of the Prophet (ﷺ) menstruated during Hajjat-ul-Wada`.
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Is she going to detain us?" I said to him, "She has already come to Mecca and performed the Tawaf (ul-ifada) around the Ka`ba, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Let her then proceed on (to Medina)."
Hadith - 425
Narrated Ibn `Umar: We were talking about Hajjat-ul-Wada`, while the Prophet (ﷺ) was amongst us. We did not know what Hajjat-ul-Wada` signified.
The Prophet (ﷺ) praised Allah and then mentioned Al-Masih Ad-Dajjal and described him extensively, saying, "Allah did not send any prophet but that prophet warned his nation of Al-Masih Ad-Dajjal. Noah and the prophets following him warned (their people) of him.
He will appear amongst you (O Muhammad's followers), and if it happens that some of his qualities may be hidden from you, but your Lord's State is clear to you and not hidden from you."
The Prophet (ﷺ) said it thrice, "Verily, your Lord is not blind in one eye, while he (i.e. Ad-Dajjal) is blind in the right eye which looks like a grape bulging out (of its cluster).
No doubt! Allah has made your blood and your properties sacred to one another like the sanctity of this day of yours, in this town of yours, in this month of yours."
The Prophet (ﷺ) added: "No doubt! Haven't I conveyed Allah's Message to you?" They replied, "Yes." The Prophet (ﷺ) said thrice, "O Allah! Be witness for it."
The Prophet (ﷺ) added, "Woe to you!" (or said), "May Allah be merciful to you! Do not become infidels after me (i.e. my death) by cutting the necks (throats) of one another."
Hadith - 426
Narrated Zaid bin Arqam: The Prophet (ﷺ) fought nineteen Ghazwas and performed only one Hajj after he migrated (to Medina), and did not perform another Hajj after it, and that was Hajj-ul-Wada`.
Abu 'Is-haq said, "He performed when he was in Mecca."
Hadith - 427
Narrated Jarir: The Prophet (ﷺ) ordered me during Hajjat-ul-Wada`, "Ask the people to listen." He then said, "Do not become infidels after me by cutting the necks (throats) of one another."
Hadith - 428
Narrated Abu Bakra: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Time has taken its original shape which it had when Allah created the Heavens and the Earth.
The year is of twelve months, four of which are sacred, and out of these (four) three are in succession, i.e. Dhul-Qa'da, Dhul-Hijja and Al-Muharram, and the fourth is Rajab which is named after the Mudar tribe, between (the month of) Jumada (ath-thania) and Sha'ban."
Then the Prophet (ﷺ) asked, "Which is this month?" We said, "Allah and His Apostle know better." On that, the Prophet (ﷺ) kept quiet so long that we thought that he might name it with another name. Then the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Isn't it the month of Dhul-Hijja?" We replied, "Yes."
Then he said, "Which town is this?" We replied, "Allah and His Apostle know better." On that, he kept quiet so long that we thought that he might name it with another name. Then he said, "Isn't it the town of Mecca?" We replied, "Yes."
Then he said, "Which day is today?" We replied, "Allah and His Apostle know better." He kept quiet so long that we thought that he might name it with another name. Then he said, "Isn't it the day of An-Nahr (i.e. sacrifice)?" We replied, "Yes."
He said, "So your blood, your properties, (The sub-narrator Muhammad said, 'I think the Prophet (ﷺ) also said: And your honor...') are sacred to one another like the sanctity of this day of yours, in this city of yours, in this month of yours; and surely, you will meet your Lord, and He will ask you about your deeds.
Beware! Do not become infidels after me, cutting the throats of one another.
It is incumbent on those who are present to convey this message (of mine) to those who are absent. May be that some of those to whom it will be conveyed will understand it better than those who have actually heard it."
(The sub-narrator, Muhammad, on remembering that narration, used to say, "Muhammad spoke the truth!")
He (i.e. the Prophet (ﷺ)) then added twice, "No doubt! Haven't I conveyed (Allah's Message) to you?"
Hadith - 429
Narrated Tariq bin Shihab: Some Jews said, "Had this Verse been revealed to us, we would have taken that day as `Id (festival)." `Umar said, "What Verse?" They said: "This day I have perfected your religion for you, Completed My Favor upon you, and have chosen for you Islam as your religion" (Surah 5: Ayah 3)
`Umar said, "I know the place where it was revealed: It was revealed while Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was staying at `Arafat."
Hadith - 430
Narrated `Aisha: We set out with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), and some of us assumed the Ihram for `Umra, some assumed it for Hajj, and some assumed it for both Hajj and `Umra. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) assumed the Ihram for Hajj.
So those who had assumed the Ihram for Hajj or for both Hajj and `Umra did not finish their Ihram till the day of An-Nahr (i.e. slaughter of sacrifices).
Malik also narrated as above, saying, "(We set out) with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) in Hajjat-ul-Wada`..." This hadith also reaches us through another chain.
Hadith - 431
Narrated Sa`d: The Prophet (ﷺ) visited me during Hajjat-ul-Wada` while I was suffering from a disease which brought me to the verge of death.
I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! My ailment has reached such a (bad) state as you see, and I have much wealth, but I have no-one to inherit from me except my only daughter. Shall I give 2/3 of my property as alms (in charity)?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "No."
I said, "Shall I give half of my property as alms?" He said, "No." I said, "(Shall I give) 1/3 of it?" He replied, "1/3, and even 1/3 is too much.
It is better for you to leave your inheritors wealthy rather than to leave them poor, begging people (for their sustenance); and whatever you spend for Allah's Sake, you will get reward for it even for the morsel of food which you put in your wife's mouth."
I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Should I remain (in Mecca) behind my companions (who are going with you to Medina)?"
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If you remain behind, any good deed which you will do for Allah's Sake will upgrade and elevate you. May be you will live longer so that some people may benefit by you and some others (i.e. infidels) may get harmed by you."
The Prophet (ﷺ) then added, "O Allah! Complete the Migration of my companions and do not turn them on their heels. But the poor Sa`d bin Khaula (not the above mentioned Sa`d) (died in Mecca)." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) pitied Sa`d for he died in Mecca.
Hadith - 432
Narrated Ibn `Umar: The Prophet (ﷺ) got his head shaved during Hajjat-ul-Wada.
Hadith - 433
Narrated Ibn `Umar: During Hajjat-ul-Wada`, the Prophet (ﷺ) and some of his companions got their heads shaved while some of his companions got their head-hair cut short.
Hadith - 434
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Abbas: That he came riding a donkey when Allah's Apostle was standing at Mina during Hajjat-ul-Wada`, leading the people in prayer. The donkey passed in front of a part of the row (of the people offering the prayer).
Then he dismounted from it and took his position in the row with the people.
Hadith - 435
Narrated Hisham's father: In my presence, Usama was asked about the speed of the Prophet (ﷺ) during his Hajj. He replied, "It was Al-`Anaq (i.e. moderate easy speed) and if he encountered an open space, he used to increase his speed."
Hadith - 436
Narrated `Abdullah bin Yazid Al-Khatmi: That Abu Aiyub informed him that he offered the Maghrib and `Isha' prayers together with the Prophet (ﷺ) during Hajjat-ul-Wada.
Hadith - 437
Narrated Abu Musa: My Companions sent me to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) to ask him for some animals to ride on as they were accompanying him in the army of Al-Usra, and that was the Ghazwa (Battle) of Tabuk.
I said, "O Allah's Prophet! My companions have sent me to you to provide them with means of transportation." He said, "By Allah! I will not make you ride anything."
It happened that when I reached him, he was in an angry mood, and I didn't notice it. So I returned in a sad mood because of the refusal of the Prophet (ﷺ) and for the fear that the Prophet (ﷺ) might have become angry with me.
So I returned to my companions and informed them of what the Prophet (ﷺ) had said. Only a short while had passed when I heard Bilal calling, "O `Abdullah bin Qais!" I replied to his call. Bilal said, "Respond to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) who is calling you."
When I went to him (i.e. the Prophet (ﷺ)), he said, "Take these two camels tied together and also these two camels tied together," referring to six camels he had brought them from Sa`d at that time.
The Prophet (ﷺ) added, 'Take them to your companions and say, "Allah (or Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)) allows you to ride on these," so ride on them.'
So I took those camels to them and said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) allows you to ride on these (camels) but by Allah, I will not leave you till some of you proceed with me to somebody who heard the statement of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). Do not think that I narrate to you a thing which Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) has not said." They said to me, "We consider you truthful, and we will do what you like."
The sub-narrator added: So Abu Musa proceeded along with some of them till they came to those who have heard the statement of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) wherein he denied them (some animals to ride on) and (his statement) whereby he gave them the same. So these people told them the same information as Abu Musa had told them.
Hadith - 438
Narrated Sa`d: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) set out for Tabuk, appointing `Ali as his deputy (in Medina). `Ali said, "Do you want to leave me with the children and women?"
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Will you not be pleased that you will be to me like Aaron to Moses? But there will be no prophet after me."
Hadith - 439
Narrated Safwan bin Ya`la bin Umaiya: That his father said, "I participated in Al-Usra (i.e. Tabuk) along with the Prophet (ﷺ)." Ya`la added, "(My participation in) that Ghazwa was the best of my deeds to me."
Ya`la said, "I had a laborer who quarrelled with somebody, and one of the two bit the hand of the other (`Ata', the sub-narrator, said, "Safwan told me who bit whom but I forgot it"), and the one who was bitten, pulled his hand out of the mouth of the biter, so one of the incisors of the biter was broken.
So we came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and he considered the biter's claim as invalid (i.e. the biter did not get a recompense for his broken incisor).
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Should he leave his hand in your mouth so that you might snap it as if it were in the mouth of a male camel to snap it?"
Hadith - 440
Narrated `Abdullah bin Ka`b bin Malik: Who, from among Ka`b's sons, was the guide of Ka`b when he became blind: I heard Ka`b bin Malik narrating the story of (the Ghazwa of) Tabuk in which he failed to take part.
Ka`b said, "I did not remain behind Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) in any Ghazwa that he fought except the Ghazwa of Tabuk, and I failed to take part in the Ghazwa of Badr, but Allah did not admonish anyone who had not participated in it, for in fact, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had gone out in search of the caravan of Quraish till Allah made them (i.e. the Muslims) and their enemy meet without any appointment.
I witnessed the night of Al-`Aqaba (pledge) with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) when we pledged for Islam, and I would not exchange it for the Badr battle, although the Badr battle is more popular amongst the people than it (i.e. Al-`Aqaba pledge).
As for my news (in this battle of Tabuk), I had never been stronger or wealthier than I was when I remained behind the Prophet (ﷺ) in that Ghazwa. By Allah, never had I two she-camels before, but I had then at the time of this Ghazwa.
Whenever Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) wanted to make a Ghazwa, he used to hide his intention by apparently referring to different Ghazwa till it was the time of that Ghazwa (of Tabuk) which Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) fought in severe heat, facing a long journey, desert, and the great number of enemy.
So the Prophet (ﷺ) announced to the Muslims clearly (their destination) so that they might get prepared for their Ghazwa. So he informed them clearly of the destination he was going to.
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was accompanied by a large number of Muslims who could not be listed in a book, namely, a register."
Ka`b added, "Any man who intended to be absent would think that the matter would remain hidden unless Allah revealed it through Divine Revelation. So Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) fought that Ghazwa at the time when the fruits had ripened and the shade looked pleasant.
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and his companions prepared for the battle and I started to go out in order to get myself ready along with them, but I returned without doing anything.
I would say to myself, 'I can do that.' So I kept on delaying it every now and then till the people got ready and Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and the Muslims along with him departed, and I had not prepared anything for my departure, and I said, 'I will prepare myself (for departure) one or two days after him, and then join them.'
In the morning following their departure, I went out to get myself ready but returned having done nothing. Then again in the next morning, I went out to get ready but returned without doing anything.
Such was the case with me till they hurried away and the battle was missed (by me). Even then I intended to depart to take them over. I wish I had done so! But it was not in my luck.
So, after the departure of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), whenever I went out and walked amongst the people (i.e. the remaining persons), it grieved me that I could see none around me, but one accused of hypocrisy or one of those weak men whom Allah had excused.
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) did not remember me till he reached Tabuk. So while he was sitting amongst the people in Tabuk, he said, 'What did Ka`b do?'
A man from Banu Salama said, 'O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! He has been stopped by his two Burdas (i.e. garments) and his looking at his own flanks with pride.' Then Mu`adh bin Jabal said, 'What a bad thing you have said! By Allah! O Allah's Apostle! We know nothing about him but good.' Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) kept silent."
Ka`b bin Malik added, "When I heard that he (i.e. the Prophet (ﷺ)) was on his way back to Medina, I got dipped in my concern, and began to think of false excuses, saying to myself, 'How can I avoid his anger tomorrow?' And I took the advice of every wise member of my family in this matter.
When it was said that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had come near, all the evil false excuses abandoned from my mind and I knew well that I could never come out of this problem by forging a false statement. Then I decided firmly to speak the truth.
So Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) arrived in the morning, and whenever he returned from a journey, he used to visit the Mosque first of all and offer a two-rak`at prayer therein and then sit for the people.
So when he had done all that (this time), those who had failed to join the battle (of Tabuk) came and started offering (false) excuses and taking oaths before him. They were something over eighty men.
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) accepted the excuses they had expressed, took their pledge of allegiance, asked for Allah's Forgiveness for them, and left the secrets of their hearts for Allah to judge.
Then I came to him, and when I greeted him, he smiled a smile of an angry person and then said, 'Come on.' So I came walking till I sat before him. He said to me, 'What stopped you from joining us. Had you not purchased an animal for carrying you?'
I answered, "Yes, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! But by Allah, if I were sitting before any person from among the people of the world other than you, I would have avoided his anger with an excuse.
By Allah, I have been bestowed with the power of speaking fluently and eloquently, but by Allah, I know well that if today I tell you a lie to seek your favor, Allah would surely make you angry with me in the near future, but if I tell you the truth, though you will get angry because of it, I hope for Allah's Forgiveness.
Really, by Allah, there was no excuse for me. By Allah, I had never been stronger or wealthier than I was when I remained behind you."
Then Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, 'As regards this man, he has surely told the truth. So get up till Allah decides your case.'
I got up, and many men of Banu Salama followed me and said to me, 'By Allah, we never witnessed you doing any sin before this. Surely, you failed to offer excuse to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), as the others who did not join him have offered. The prayer of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) to Allah to forgive you would have been sufficient for you.'
By Allah, they continued blaming me so much that I intended to return (to the Prophet (ﷺ)) and accuse myself of having told a lie, but I said to them, 'Is there anybody else who has met the same fate as I have?'
They replied, 'Yes, there are two men who have said the same thing as you have, and to both of them was given the same order as given to you.' I said, 'Who are they?' They replied, 'Murara bin Ar-Rabi Al-Amri and Hilal bin Umaiya Al-Waqifi.'
By that, they mentioned to me two pious men who had attended the Ghazwa (Battle) of Badr, and in whom there was an example for me. So I did not change my mind when they mentioned them to me.
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade all the Muslims to talk to us, the three aforesaid persons out of all those who had remained behind in that Ghazwa.
So we kept away from the people and they changed their attitude towards us till the very land (where I lived) appeared strange to me as if I did not know it. We remained in that condition for fifty nights.
As regards my two fellows, they remained in their houses and kept on weeping, but I was the youngest of them and the firmest of them, so I used to go out and witness the prayers along with the Muslims and roam about in the markets, but none would talk to me, and I would come to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and greet him while he was sitting in his gathering after the prayer, and I would wonder whether the Prophet (ﷺ) did move his lips in return to my greetings or not.
Then I would offer my prayer near to him and look at him stealthily. When I was busy with my prayer, he would turn his face towards me, but when I turned my face to him, he would turn his face away from me.
When this harsh attitude of the people lasted long, I walked till I scaled the wall of the garden of Abu Qatada who was my cousin and the dearest person to me, and I offered my greetings to him. By Allah, he did not return my greetings.
I said, 'O Abu Qatada! I beseech you by Allah! Do you know that I love Allah and His Apostle?' He kept quiet. I asked him again, beseeching him by Allah, but he remained silent. Then I asked him again in the Name of Allah. He said, "Allah and His Apostle know it better." Thereupon my eyes flowed with tears and I returned and jumped over the wall."
Ka`b added, "While I was walking in the market of Medina, suddenly I saw a Nabati (i.e. a Christian farmer) from the Nabatis of Sham who came to sell his grains in Medina, saying, 'Who will lead me to Ka`b bin Malik?'
The people began to point (me) out for him till he came to me and handed me a letter from the king of Ghassan in which the following was written: "To proceed, I have been informed that your friend (i.e. the Prophet (ﷺ)) has treated you harshly.
Anyhow, Allah does not let you live at a place where you feel inferior and your right is lost. So join us, and we will console you."
When I read it, I said to myself, 'This is also a sort of a test.' Then I took the letter to the oven and made a fire therein by burning it.
When forty out of the fifty nights elapsed, behold! There came to me the messenger of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) orders you to keep away from your wife." I said, "Should I divorce her; or else what should I do?" He said, "No, only keep aloof from her and do not cohabit her."
The Prophet (ﷺ) sent the same message to my two fellows. Then I said to my wife, "Go to your parents and remain with them till Allah gives His Verdict in this matter."
Ka`b added, "The wife of Hilal bin Umaiya came to Allah's Apostle and said, 'O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Hilal bin Umaiya is a helpless old man who has no servant to attend on him. Do you dislike that I should serve him?' He said, 'No (you can serve him) but he should not come near you.'
She said, 'By Allah, he has no desire for anything. By Allah, he has never ceased weeping since his case began till this day of his.'
On that, some of my family members said to me, 'Will you also ask Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) to permit your wife (to serve you) as he has permitted the wife of Hilal bin Umaiya to serve him?'
I said, 'By Allah, I will not ask the permission of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) regarding her, for I do not know what Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) would say if I asked him to permit her (to serve me) while I am a young man.'
Then I remained in that state for ten more nights after that till the period of fifty nights was completed, starting from the time when Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) prohibited the people from talking to us.
When I had offered the Fajr prayer on the 50th morning on the roof of one of our houses and while I was sitting in the condition which Allah described (in the Qur'an) i.e. my very soul seemed straitened to me and even the earth seemed narrow to me for all its spaciousness, there I heard the voice of one who had ascended the mountain of Sala' calling with his loudest voice, 'O Ka`b bin Malik! Be happy (by receiving good tidings).'
I fell down in prostration before Allah, realizing that relief has come. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had announced the acceptance of our repentance by Allah when he had offered the Fajr prayer. The people then went out to congratulate us.
Some bringers of good tidings went out to my two fellows, and a horseman came to me in haste, and a man of Banu Aslam came running and ascended the mountain and his voice was swifter than the horse.
When he (i.e. the man) whose voice I had heard, came to me conveying the good tidings, I took off my garments and dressed him with them; and by Allah, I owned no other garments than them on that day.
Then I borrowed two garments and wore them and went to Allah's Apostle. The people started receiving me in batches, congratulating me on Allah's Acceptance of my repentance, saying, "We congratulate you on Allah's Acceptance of your repentance."
Ka`b further said, "When I entered the Mosque, I saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) sitting with the people around him. Talha bin Ubaidullah swiftly came to me, shook hands with me and congratulated me.
By Allah, none of the Muhajirin (i.e. Emigrants) got up for me except him (i.e. Talha), and I will never forget this for Talha."
Ka`b added, 'When I greeted Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) his face being bright with joy, and he said, "Be happy with the best day that you have got ever since your mother delivered you."'
Ka`b added, "I said to the Prophet (ﷺ), 'Is this forgiveness from you or from Allah?' He said, 'No, it is from Allah.'
Whenever Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) became happy, his face would shine as if it were a piece of moon, and we all knew that characteristic of him. When I sat before him, I said, 'O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Because of the acceptance of my repentance I will give up all my wealth as alms for the Sake of Allah and His Apostle.'
Allah's Apostle said, 'Keep some of your wealth, as it will be better for you.' I said, 'So I will keep my share from Khaibar with me,' and added, 'O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Allah has saved me for telling the truth; so it is a part of my repentance not to tell but the truth as long as I am alive.'
By Allah, I do not know anyone of the Muslims whom Allah has helped for telling the truth more than me. Since I have mentioned that truth to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) till today, I have never intended to tell a lie. I hope that Allah will also save me (from telling lies) the rest of my life. So Allah revealed to His Apostle the Verse: "Verily, Allah has forgiven the Prophet, the Muhajirin (i.e. Emigrants) ... (up to His Saying) and be with those who are true (in word and deed)." (Surah 9: Ayat 117-119)
By Allah, Allah has never bestowed upon me, apart from His guiding me to Islam, a greater blessing than the fact that I did not tell a lie to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) which would have caused me to perish as those who have told a lie perished, for Allah described those who told lies with the worst description He ever attributed to anybody else.
Allah said: "They (i.e. the hypocrites) will swear by Allah to you when you return to them ... (up to His Saying) ... Certainly Allah is not pleased with the rebellious people" (Surah 9: Ayat 95-96)
Ka`b added, "We, the three persons, differed altogether from those whose excuses Allah's Apostle accepted when they swore to him. He took their pledge of allegiance and asked Allah to forgive them, but Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) left our case pending till Allah gave His Judgment about it.
As for that, Allah said: And to the three (He did forgive also) who remained behind," (Surah 9: Ayah 118)
What Allah said (in this Verse) does not indicate our failure to take part in the Ghazwa, but it refers to the deferment of making a decision by the Prophet (ﷺ) about our case in contrast to the case of those who had taken an oath before him and he excused them by accepting their excuses.
Hadith - 441
Narrated Ibn `Umar: When the Prophet (ﷺ) passed by Al-Hijr, he said, "Do not enter the dwelling places of those people who were unjust to themselves, unless you enter in a weeping state, lest the same calamity as of theirs should befall you."
Then he covered his head and made his speed fast till he crossed the valley.
Hadith - 442
Narrated Ibn `Umar: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said to his companions who were at Al-Hijr, "Do not enter upon these people who are being punished, except in a weeping state, lest the same calamity as of theirs should befall you."
Hadith - 443
Narrated `Urwa bin Al-Mughira: Al-Mughira bin Shu`ba said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) went out to answer the call of nature and (when he had finished) I got up to pour water for him." I think that he said that the event had taken place during the Ghazwa of Tabuk.
Al-Mughira added, "The Prophet (ﷺ) washed his face, and when he wanted to wash his forearms, the sleeves of his cloak became tight over them, so he took them out from underneath the cloak and then he washed them (i.e. his forearms) and passed wet hands over his Khuffs (socks made from thick fabric or leather)."
Hadith - 444
Narrated Abu Humaid: We returned in the company of the Prophet (ﷺ) from the Ghazwa of Tabuk, and when we looked upon Medina, the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "This is Taba (i.e. Medina), and this is Uhud, a mountain that loves us and is loved by us."
Hadith - 445
Narrated Anas bin Malik: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) returned from the Ghazwa of Tabuk, and when he approached Medina, he said, "There are some people in Medina who were with you all the time, you did not travel any portion of the journey nor crossed any valley, but they were with you."
They (i.e. the people) said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Even though they were at Medina?" He said, "Yes, because they were stopped by a genuine excuse."
Hadith - 446
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) sent a letter to Khosrau with `Abdullah bin Hudhafa As-Sahmi and told him to hand it over to the governor of Al-Bahrain.
The governor of Al-Bahrain handed it over to Khosrau, and when he read the letter, he tore it into pieces.
(The sub-narrator added, 'I think that Ibn Al-Musaiyab said, "Allah's Apostle invoked (Allah) to tear them all (Khosrau and his companions) totally into pieces."')
Hadith - 447
Narrated Abu Bakra: During the days (of the battle) of Al-Jamal, Allah benefited me with a word I had heard from Allah's Apostle after I had been about to join the Companions of Al-Jamal (i.e. the camel) and fight along with them.
When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was informed that the Persians had crowned the daughter of Khosrau as their ruler, he said, "Such people as ruled by a lady will never be successful."
Hadith - 448
Narrated As-Sa'ib bin Yazid: I remember that I went out with the boys to (the place called) Thaniyat-ul-Wada` to receive Allah's Apostle (ﷺ).
Hadith - 449
Narrated As-Saib: I remember I went out with the boys to Thaniyat-ul-Wada` to receive the Prophet (ﷺ) when he returned from the Ghazwa of Tabuk.
Hadith - 450
Narrated `Aisha: The Prophet (ﷺ) in his ailment in which he died, used to say, "O `Aisha! I still feel the pain caused by the food I ate at Khaibar, and at this time, I feel as if my aorta is being cut from that poison."
Hadith - 451
Narrated Um Al-Fadl bint Al-Harith: I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) reciting Surat-al-Mursalat (Surah 77) in the Maghrib prayer, and after that prayer he did not lead us in any prayer till he died.
Hadith - 452
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: `Umar bin Al-Khattab used to let Ibn `Abbas sit beside him, so `Abdur-Rahman bin `Auf said to `Umar, "We have sons similar to him." `Umar replied, "(I respect him) because of his status that you know."
`Umar then asked Ibn `Abbas about the meaning of this Holy Verse: "When comes the help of Allah and the conquest of Mecca..." (Surah 110: Ayah 1). Ibn `Abbas replied, "That indicated the death of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) which Allah informed him of." `Umar said, "I do not understand of it except what you understand."
Hadith - 453
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: Thursday! And how great that Thursday was! The ailment of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) became worse (on Thursday) and he said, "Fetch me something so that I may write to you something after which you will never go astray."
The people (present there) differed in this matter, and it was not right to differ before a prophet. Some said, "What is wrong with him ? (Do you think) he is delirious (seriously ill)? Ask him (to understand his state)." So they went to the Prophet (ﷺ) and asked him again.
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Leave me, for my present state is better than what you call me for."
Then he ordered them to do three things. He said, "Turn the pagans out of the Arabian Peninsula; respect and give gifts to the foreign delegations as you have seen me dealing with them."
(Sa`id bin Jubair, the sub-narrator said that Ibn `Abbas kept quiet as regards the third order, or he said, "I forgot it.")
Hadith - 454
Narrated Ubaidullah bin `Abdullah: Ibn `Abbas said, "When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was on his deathbed and there were some men in the house, he said, 'Come near, I will write for you something after which you will not go astray.'
Some of them (i.e. his companions) said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) is seriously ill and you have the (Holy) Qur'an. Allah's Book is sufficient for us." So the people in the house differed and started disputing.
Some of them said, 'Give him writing material so that he may write for you something after which you will not go astray.' While the others said the other way round. So when their talk and differences increased, Allah's Apostle said, "Get up."
Ibn `Abbas used to say, "No doubt, it was very unfortunate (a great disaster) that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was prevented from writing for them that writing because of their differences and noise."
Hadith - 455
Narrated `Aisha: The Prophet (ﷺ) called Fatima during his fatal illness and told her something secretly and she wept. Then he called her again and told her something secretly, and she started laughing.
When we asked her about that, she said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) first told me secretly that he would expire in that disease in which he died, so I wept; then he told me secretly that I would be the first of his family to follow him, so I laughed (at that time)."
Hadith - 456
Narrated `Aisha: I used to hear (from the Prophet (ﷺ)) that no Prophet dies till he is given the option to select either the worldly life or the life of the Hereafter.
I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) in his fatal disease, with his voice becoming hoarse, saying, "In the company of those on whom is the grace of Allah...(to the end of the Verse)." (Surah 4: Ayah 69)
Thereupon I thought that the Prophet (ﷺ) had been given the option.
Hadith - 457
Narrated `Aisha: When the Prophet (ﷺ) fell ill in his fatal illness, he started saying, "With the highest companion."
Hadith - 458
Narrated Aisha: When Allah's Apostle was in good health, he used to say, "Never does a prophet die unless he is shown his place in Paradise (before his death), and then he is made alive or given an option."
When the Prophet (ﷺ) became ill and his last moments came while his head was on my thigh, he became unconscious, and when he came to his senses, he looked towards the roof of the house and then said, "O Allah! (Please let me be) with the highest companion."
Thereupon I said, "Hence he is not going to stay with us?" Then I came to know that his state was the confirmation of the narration he used to mention to us while he was in good health.
Hadith - 459
Narrated Aisha: `Abdur-Rahman bin Abu Bakr entered upon the Prophet (ﷺ) while I was supporting the Prophet (ﷺ) on my chest. `Abdur-Rahman had a fresh Siwak then and he was cleaning his teeth with it.
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) looked at it, so I took the Siwak, cut it (chewed it with my teeth), shook it and made it soft (with water), and then gave it to the Prophet (ﷺ) who cleaned his teeth with it. I had never seen Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) cleaning his teeth in a better way.
After finishing the brushing of his teeth, he lifted his hand or his finger and said thrice, "O Allah! Let me be with the highest companions," and then died. `Aisha used to say, "He died while his head was resting between my chest and chin."
Hadith - 460
Narrated Aisha: Whenever Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) became ill, he used to recite the Muawwidhatain (i.e. the last two surahs of the Qur'an) and blow his breath over himself (after their recitation) and rubbed his hands over his body.
So when he was afflicted with his fatal illness, I started reciting the Muawwidhatain and blowing my breath over him as he used to do, and then I rubbed the hand of the Prophet (ﷺ) over his body.
Hadith - 461
Narrated `Aisha: I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) and listened to him before his death while he was leaning his back on me and saying, "O Allah! Forgive me, and bestow Your Mercy on me, and let me meet the (highest) companions (of the Hereafter)." (See the Qur'an (Surah 4: Ayah 69) and Hadith 456)
Hadith - 462
Narrated `Urwa bin Az-Zubair: `Aisha said, 'The Prophet (ﷺ) said during his fatal illness, "Allah cursed the Jews for they took the graves of their prophets as places for worship."'
`Aisha added, "Had it not been for that (statement of the Prophet (ﷺ)) his grave would have been made conspicuous. But he was afraid that it might be taken as a place for worship."
Hadith - 463
Narrated Aisha (the wife of the Prophet): "When the ailment of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) became aggravated, he requested his wives to permit him to be (treated) nursed in my house, and they gave him permission.
He came out (to my house), walking between two men with his feet dragging on the ground, between `Abbas bin `Abdul-Muttalib and another man."
'Ubaidullah said, "I told `Abdullah of what `Aisha had said. `Abdullah bin `Abbas said to me, 'Do you know who is the other man whom `Aisha did not name?' I said, 'No.' Ibn `Abbas said, 'It was `Ali bin Abu Talib.'"
`Aisha, the wife of the Prophet (ﷺ) used to narrate saying, 'When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) entered my house and his disease became aggravated, he said, "Pour on me the water of seven water-skins, the mouths of which have not been untied, so that I may give advice to the people."
So we let him sit in a big basin belonging to Hafsa, the wife of the Prophet (ﷺ), and then started to pour water on him from these water-skins till he started pointing to us with his hands intending to say, "You have done your job."'
`Aisha added, "Then he went out to the people and led them in prayer and preached to them."
Hadith - 464
Aisha and `Abdullah bin `Abbas said, "When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) became ill seriously, he started covering his face with his woolen sheet, and when he felt short of breath, he removed it from his face and said, 'That is so! Allah's curse be on the Jews and the Christians, as they took the graves of their prophets as (places of worship),' intending to warn (the Muslims) of what they had done."
Hadith - 465
Aisha added, "I argued with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) repeatedly about that matter (i.e. his order that Abu Bakr should lead the people in prayer in his place when he was ill), and what made me argue so much was that it never occurred to my mind that after the Prophet (ﷺ) the people would ever love a man who had taken his place, and I felt that anybody standing in his place would be a bad omen to the people, so I wanted Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) to give up the idea of choosing Abu Bakr (to lead the people in prayer)."
Hadith - 466
Narrated `Aisha: The Prophet (ﷺ) died while he was between my chest and chin, so I never dislike the death agony for anyone after the Prophet (ﷺ).
Hadith - 467
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Abbas: `Ali bin Abu Talib came out of the house of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) during his fatal illness. The people asked, "O Abu Hasan (i.e. `Ali)! How is the health of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) this morning?" `Ali replied, "He has recovered with the Grace of Allah."
`Abbas bin `Abdul Muttalib held him by the hand and said to him, "In three days you, by Allah, will be ruled (by somebody else). And by Allah, I feel that Allah's Apostle will die from this ailment of his, for I know how the faces of the offspring of `Abdul Muttalib look at the time of their death.
So let us go to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and ask him who will take over the Caliphate. If it is given to us we will know as to it, and if it is given to somebody else, we will inform him so that he may tell the new ruler to take care of us."
`Ali said, "By Allah, if we asked Allah's Apostle for it (i.e. the Caliphate) and he denied it to us, the people will never give it to us after that. And by Allah, I will not ask Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) for it."
Hadith - 468
Narrated Anas bin Malik: While the Muslims were offering the Fajr prayer on Monday and Abu Bakr was leading them in prayer, suddenly Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) lifted the curtain of `Aisha's dwelling and looked at them while they were in the rows of the prayers and smiled.
Abu Bakr retreated to join the row, thinking that Allah's Apostle wanted to come out for the prayer.
The Muslims were about to be put to trial in their prayer (i.e. were about to give up praying) because of being overjoyed at seeing Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). But Allah's Apostle beckoned them with his hand to complete their prayer and then entered the dwelling and let fall the curtain.
Hadith - 469
Narrated Aisha: It was one of the favors of Allah towards me that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) expired in my house on the day of my turn, while he was leaning against my chest and Allah made my saliva mix with his saliva at his death.
`Abdur-Rahman entered upon me with a Siwak in his hand and I was supporting (the back of) Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (against my chest). I saw the Prophet (ﷺ) looking at it (i.e. Siwak) and I knew that he loved the Siwak, so I said (to him), "Shall I take it for you?" He nodded in agreement.
So I took it and it was too stiff for him to use, so I said, "Shall I soften it for you?" He nodded his approval. So I softened it and he cleaned his teeth with it.
In front of him there was a jug or a tin, (The sub-narrator, `Umar is in doubt as to which was right) containing water. He started dipping his hand in the water and rubbing his face with it, he said, "None has the right to be worshipped except Allah. Death has its agonies."
He then lifted his hands (towards the sky) and started saying, "With the highest companion," till he expired and his hand dropped down.
Hadith - 470
Narrated `Urwa: `Aisha said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) in his fatal illness, used to ask, 'Where will I be tomorrow? Where will I be tomorrow?'", seeking `Aisha's turn.
His wives allowed him to stay wherever he wished. So he stayed at `Aisha's house till he expired while he was with her.
`Aisha added, "The Prophet (ﷺ) expired on the day of my turn in my house, and he was taken unto Allah while his head was against my chest and his saliva mixed with my saliva."
`Aisha added, "Abdur-Rahman bin Abu Bakr came in, carrying a Siwak he was cleaning his teeth with. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) looked at it and I said to him, 'O `Abdur-Rahman! Give me this Siwak.'
So he gave it to me and I cut it, chewed it (it's end) and gave it to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) who cleaned his teeth with it while he was resting against my chest."
Hadith - 471
Narrated `Aisha: The Prophet (ﷺ) expired in my house and on the day of my turn, leaning against my chest. One of us (i.e. the Prophet's wives) used to recite a prayer asking Allah to protect him from all evils when he became sick.
So I started asking Allah to protect him from all evils (by reciting a prayer). He raised his head towards the sky and said, "With the highest companions, with the highest companions."
`Abdur-Rahman bin Abu Bakr passed carrying a fresh leaf-stalk of a date-palm and the Prophet (ﷺ) looked at it, and I thought that the Prophet (ﷺ) was in need of it (for cleaning his teeth).
So I took it (from `Abdur Rahman) and chewed its head and shook it and gave it to the Prophet (ﷺ), who cleaned his teeth with it in the best way he had ever cleaned his teeth, and then he gave it to me, and suddenly his hand dropped down or it fell from his hand (i.e. he expired).
So Allah made my saliva mix with his saliva on his last day on earth and his first day in the Hereafter.
Hadith - 472
Narrated `Aisha: Abu Bakr came from his house at As-Sunh on a horse. He dismounted and entered the Mosque, but did not speak to the people till he entered upon `Aisha and went straight to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) who was covered with Hibra cloth (i.e. a kind of Yemenite cloth).
He then uncovered the Prophet's face and bowed over him and kissed him and wept, saying, "Let my father and mother be sacrificed for you. By Allah, Allah will never cause you to die twice. As for the death which was written for you, has come upon you."
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: Abu Bakr went out while `Umar bin Al-Khattab was talking to the people. Abu Bakr said, "Sit down, O `Umar!" But `Umar refused to sit down. So the people came to Abu Bakr and left `Umar.
Abu Bakr said, "To proceed, if anyone amongst you used to worship Muhammad, then Muhammad is dead, but if (anyone of) you used to worship Allah, then Allah is Alive and shall never die.
Allah said: "Muhammad is no more than an Apostle, and indeed (many) apostles have passed away before him ... (till the end of the Verse) ... Allah will reward to those who are thankful." (Surah 3: Ayah 144)
By Allah, it was as if the people never knew that Allah had revealed this Verse before, till Abu Bakr recited it and all the people received it from him, and I heard everybody reciting it (then).
Narrated Az-Zuhri: Sa`id bin Al-Musaiyab told me that `Umar said, "By Allah, when I heard Abu Bakr reciting it, my legs could not support me and I fell down at the very moment of hearing him reciting it, declaring that the Prophet (ﷺ) had died."
Hadith - 473
Narrated Aisha and Ibn `Abbas: Abu Bakr kissed the Prophet (ﷺ) after his death.
Hadith - 474
Narrated `Aisha: We poured medicine in one side of the Prophet's mouth during his illness and he started pointing to us, meaning to say, "Don't pour medicine in my mouth." We said, "(He says so) because a patient dislikes medicines."
When he improved and felt a little better, he said, "Didn't I forbid you to pour medicine in my mouth?" We said, "(We thought it was because of) the dislike patients have for medicines."
He said, "Let everyone present in the house be given medicine by pouring it in his mouth while I am looking at him, except `Abbas as he has not witnessed you (doing the same to me)."
Hadith - 475
Narrated Al-Aswad: It was mentioned in the presence of `Aisha that the Prophet (ﷺ) had appointed `Ali as successor by will.
Thereupon she said, "Who said so? I saw the Prophet (ﷺ) while I was supporting him against my chest. He asked for a tray, and then fell on one side and expired, and I did not feel it. So how (do the people say) he appointed `Ali as his successor?"
Hadith - 476
Narrated Talha: I asked `Abdullah bin Abu `Aufa, "Did the Prophet (ﷺ) make a will?" He replied, "No."
I further asked, "How come it is that the making of a will was enjoined on the people or that they were ordered to make it?" He said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) made a will concerning Allah's Book."
Hadith - 477
Narrated 'Amir bin Al-Harith: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) did not leave a Dinar or a Dirham or a male or a female slave. He left only his white mule on which he used to ride, and his weapons, and a piece of land which he gave in charity for the needy travelers.
Hadith - 478
Narrated Anas: When the ailment of the Prophet (ﷺ) got aggravated, he became unconscious, whereupon Fatima said, "Oh, how distressed my father is!" He said, "Your father will have no more distress after today."
When he expired, she said, "O Father! Who has responded to the call of the Lord Who has invited him! O Father, whose dwelling place is the Garden of Paradise (i.e. Al-Firdaus)! O Father! We convey this news (of your death) to Gabriel."
When he was buried, Fatima said, "O Anas! Do you feel pleased to throw earth over Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)?"
Hadith - 479
Narrated `Aisha: When the Prophet (ﷺ) was healthy, he used to say, "No soul of a prophet is captured till he is shown his place in Paradise and then he is given the option."
When death approached him while his head was on my thigh, he became unconscious and then recovered his consciousness. He then looked at the ceiling of the house and said, "O Allah! (with) the highest companions."
I said (to myself), "Hence, he is not going to choose us." Then I realized that what he had said was the application of the narration which he used to mention to us when he was healthy. The last word he spoke was, "O Allah! (with) the highest companion."
Hadith - 480
Narrated Aisha and Ibn `Abbas: The Prophet (ﷺ) stayed for ten years in Mecca with the Qur'an being revealed to him, and he stayed in Medina for ten years.
Hadith - 481
Narrated `Aisha: Allah's Apostle died when he was sixty-three years of age.
Hadith - 482
Narrated `Aisha: The Prophet (ﷺ) died while his armor was mortgaged to a Jew for thirty Sa's of barley.
Hadith - 483
Narrated Salim's father: The Prophet (ﷺ) appointed Usama as the commander of the troops (to be sent to Syria). The Muslims spoke about Usama (unfavorably).
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I have been informed that you spoke about Usama. (Let it be known that) he is the most beloved of all people to me."
Hadith - 484
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) sent troops and appointed Usama bin Zaid as their commander. The people criticized his leadership.
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) got up and said, "If you (people) are criticizing his (i.e. Usama's) leadership, you used to criticize the leadership of his father before. By Allah, he (i.e. Zaid) deserved the leadership indeed, and he used to be one of the most beloved persons to me, and now this (i.e. his son, Usama) is one of the most beloved persons to me after him."
Hadith - 485
Narrated Ibn Abu Habib: Abu Al-Khair said, "As-Sunabihi asked (me), 'When did you migrate?' I (i.e. Abu Al-Khair) said, 'We went out from Yemen as emigrants and arrived at Al-Juhfa, and there came a rider whom I asked about the news. The rider said: We buried the Prophet (ﷺ) five days ago.'
I asked (As-Sunabihi), 'Did you hear anything about the night of Qadr?' He replied, 'Bilal, the Mu'adh-dhin of the Prophet (ﷺ) informed me that it is on one of the seven nights of the last ten days (of Ramadan).'"
Hadith - 486
Narrated Abu 'Is-haq: I asked Zaid bin Al-Arqam, "In how many Ghazawat did you take part in the company of Allah's Apostle?" He replied, "Seventeen." I further asked, "How many Ghazawat did the Prophet (ﷺ) fight?" He replied, "Nineteen."
Hadith - 487
Narrated Al-Bara: I fought fifteen Ghazawat in the company of the Prophet (ﷺ).
Hadith - 488
Narrated Buraida: That he fought sixteen Ghazawat with Allah's Apostle (ﷺ).