Hadith - 450
Narrated `Abdullah: We were with the Prophet (ﷺ) when Surat Wal-Mursalat was revealed to him. While we were receiving it from his mouth, a snake suddenly came and we ran to kill it, but it outstripped us and entered its hole quickly. Allah's Apostle said, "It has escaped your evil, and you too, have escaped its evil."
Hadith - 451
Narrated `Abdullah: (Similarly as the Hadith before).
Hadith - 452
Narrated `Abdullah: While we were with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) in a cave, Surat "Wal Mursalat" was revealed to him and we received it directly from his mouth as soon as he had received the revelation. Suddenly a snake came out and Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Get at it and kill it!" We ran to kill it but it outstripped us. Allah's Apostle said, "It has escaped your evil, as you too, have escaped its.
Hadith - 453
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: (as regards the explanation of Hadith 454). 'Indeed, it (Hell) throws about sparks (huge) as Forts.' We used to collect wood in the form of logs, three cubits long or shorter. for heating purposes in winter., and we used to call such wood, the Qasr.
Hadith - 454
Narrated Ibn 'Abbas: (regarding) the explanation of "... It throws sparks as Al-Qasr ..." (Surah 77: Ayah 32): We used to collect logs of wood, three cubits long or longer, to store for heating purposes in winter, and we used to call it Al-Qasr, it also means a castle or a fort. "As if they were Jimalatun Sufr (yellow camels or bundles of ropes)" (Surah 77: Ayah 33): means the ropes of a ship which are made in bundles till it become as wide as men's waists.
Hadith - 455
Narrated `Abdullah: While we were with the Prophet (ﷺ) in a cave, Surat wal-Mursalat was revealed to him and he recited it, and I heard it directly from his mouth as soon as he recited its revelation. Suddenly a snake sprang at us, and the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Kill it!" We ran to kill it but it escaped quickly. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "It has escaped your evil, and you too have escaped its evil."
Hadith - 456
Narrated Al-A`mash: Abu Huraira said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, 'Between the two sounds of the trumpet, there will be forty." Somebody asked Abu Huraira, "Forty days?" But he refused to reply. Then he asked, "Forty months?" He refused to reply. Then he asked, "Forty years?" Again, he refused to reply. Abu Huraira added. "Then (after this period) Allah will send water from the sky and then the dead bodies will grow like vegetation grows, There is nothing of the human body that does not decay except one bone; that is the little bone at the end of the coccyx of which the human body will be recreated on the Day of Resurrection."
Hadith - 457
Narrated Sahl bin Sa`d: I saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) pointing with his index and middle fingers, saying. "The time of my Advent and the Hour are like these two fingers.
Hadith - 458
Narrated Aisha: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Such a person as recites the Qur'an and masters it by heart, will be with the noble righteous scribes (in Heaven). And such a person exerts himself to learn the Qur'an by heart, and recites it with great difficulty, will have a double reward.
Hadith - 459
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "On the Day when all mankind will stand before the Lord of the Worlds, some of them will be enveloped in their sweat up to the middle of their ears.
Hadith - 460
Narrated Aisha: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said," (On the Day of Resurrection) any one whose account will be taken will be ruined (i.e. go to Hell)." I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! May Allah make me be sacrificed for you. Doesn't Allah say: "Then as for him who will be given his record in his right hand, he surely will receive an easy reckoning.?" (Surah 84: Ayat 7-8) He replied, "That is only the presentation of the accounts; but he whose record is questioned, will be ruined." (This hadith is also narrated through two other chains).
Hadith - 461
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: (As regards the Verse): 'You shall surely travel from stage to stage (in this life and in the Hereafter).' (It means) from one state to another. That concerns your Prophet (ﷺ).
Hadith - 462
Narrated Al-Bara: The first of the companions of the Prophet (ﷺ) who came to us (in Medina), were Mus`ab bin `Umar and Ibn Um Maktum, and they started teaching us the Qur'an. Then came `Ammar, Bilal and Sa`d. Afterwards `Umar bin Al-Khattab came along with a batch of twenty (men), and after that the Prophet (ﷺ) came. I never saw the people of Medina so pleased with anything as they were with his arrival, so that even the little boys and girls were saying, "This is Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) who has come." He (the Prophet (ﷺ) ) did not come (to Medina) till I had learnt Surat Al-Ala and also other similar Suras.
Hadith - 463
Narrated `Abdullah bin Zama: That he heard the Prophet (ﷺ) delivering a sermon, and he mentioned the she-camel and the one who hamstrung it. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) recited:  'When, the most wicked man among them went forth (to hamstrung the she-camel).' (Surah 91: Ayah 12) Then he said, "A tough man whose equal was rare and who enjoyed the protection of his people, like Abi Zama went forth to (hamstrung) it." The Prophet (ﷺ) then mentioned about the women (in his sermon), "It is not wise for anyone of you to lash his wife like a slave, for he might sleep with her the same evening." Then he advised them not to laugh when somebody breaks wind and said, "Why should anybody laugh at what he himself does?"
Hadith - 464
Narrated Alqama: I went to Sham with a group of the companions of `Abdullah (bin Mas`ud). Abu Ad-Darda' heard of our arrival so he came to us and said, "Is there anybody among you who can recite (Qur'an)" We replied in the affirmative. Then he asked, "Who is the best reciter?" They pointed at me. Then he told me to recite, so I recited the verse: 'By the night as it envelops, By the day as it appears in brightness; By (Him Who created) male and the female.' (Surah 92: Ayat 1-3) Abu Ad-Darda' then said to me, "Did you hear it (like this) from the mouth of your friend (`Abdullah bin Mas`ud)?" I said, "Yes." He said, "I too heard it (like this) from the mouth of the Prophet (ﷺ), but these people do not consider this recitation as the correct one."
Hadith - 465
Narrated Ibrahim: The companions of `Abdullah (bin Mas`ud) came to Abu Darda', (and before they arrived at his home), he looked for them and found them. Then he asked them,: 'Who among you can recite (Qur'an) as `Abdullah recites it?" They replied, "All of us." He asked, "Who among you knows it by heart?" They pointed at 'Alqama. Then he asked Alqama. "How did you hear `Abdullah bin Mas`ud reciting Surat Al-Lail (The Night)?" Alqama recited: 'By the male and the female.' Abu Ad-Darda said, "I testify that I heard me Prophet reciting it likewise, but these people want me to recite it: 'And by Him Who created male and female,' but by Allah, I will not follow them.
Hadith - 466
Narrated `Ali: We were in the company of the Prophet (ﷺ) in a funeral procession at Baqi Al-Gharqad. He said, "There is none of you but has his place written for him in Paradise or in the Hell-Fire." They said, "O Allah's Apostle! Shall we depend (on this fact and give up work)?" He said, "Carry on doing (good deeds), for every body will find it easy to do (what will lead him to his destined place)." Then he recited: 'As for him who gives (in charity) and keeps his duty to Allah, and believes in the Best reward from Allah (i.e. Allah will compensate him for what he will spend in Allah's way). So, We will make smooth for him the path of ease. But he who is a greedy miser....for him, the path for evil.
Hadith - 467
Narrated Abu `Abdur-Rahman: `Ali said, "We were sitting with the Prophet," (He then mentioned the Hadith above).
Hadith - 468
Narrated `Ali: While the Prophet (ﷺ) was in a funeral procession, he took a small stick and started scraping the earth with it and said, "There is none among you but has his place written for him, either in the Hell Fire or in Paradise." They (the people) said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Shall we depend on this (and leave work)?" He replied. "Carry on doing (good deeds), for everybody will find easy (to do) such deeds as will lead him to his destined place." The Prophet (ﷺ) then recited: 'As for him who gives (in charity) and keeps his duty to Allah, and believes in the Best Reward...' (Surah 92: Ayat 5-10)
Hadith - 469
Narrated `Ali: We were in the company of the Prophet (ﷺ) and he said, "There is none among you but has his place written for him, either in Paradise or in the Hell-Fire." We said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Shall we depend (on this fact and give up work)?" He replied, "No! Carry on doing good deeds, for everybody will find easy (to do) such deeds as will lead him to his destined place." Then the Prophet (ﷺ) recited: 'As for him who gives (in charity) and keeps his duty to Allah, and believes in the Best reward. We will make smooth for him the path of ease....the path for evil.
Hadith - 470
Narrated `Ali: While we were in a funeral procession in Baqi Al-Gharqad, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) came and sat down, and we sat around him. He had a small stick in his hand and he bent his head and started scraping the ground with it. He then said, "There is none among you, and no created soul but has his place written for him either in Paradise or in the Hell-Fire, and also has his happy or miserable fate (in the Hereafter) written for him." A man said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Shall we depend upon what is written for us and give up doing (good) deeds? For whoever among us is destined to be fortunate (in the Hereafter), will join the fortunate peoples and whoever among us is destined to be miserable will do such deeds as are characteristic of the people who are destined to misery." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Those who are destined to be happy (in the Hereafter) will find it easy and pleasant to do the deeds characteristic of those destined to happiness, while those who are to be among the miserable (in the Hereafter), will find it easy to do the deeds characteristic of those destined to misery." Then he recited: 'As for him who gives (in charity) and keeps his duty to Allah and believes in the Best reward from Allah.
Hadith - 471
Narrated `Ali: While the Prophet (ﷺ) was in a funeral procession. he picked up something and started scraping the ground with it, and said, "There is none among you but has his place written for him either in the Hell Fire or in Paradise." They said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Shall we not depend upon what has been written for us and give up deeds? He said, "Carry on doing (good) deeds, for everybody will find easy to do such deeds as will lead him to his destined place for which he has been created. So he who is destined to be among the happy (in the Hereafter), will find it easy to do the deeds characteristic of such people, while he who is destined to be among the miserable ones, will find it easy to do the deeds characteristic of such people." Then he recited: 'As for him who gives (in charity) and fears Allah, and believes in the best.