Hadith - 472
Narrated Jundub bin Sufyan: Once Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) became sick and could not offer his night prayer (Tahajjud) for two or three nights.
Then a lady (the wife of Abu Lahab) came and said, "O Muhammad! I think that your Satan has forsaken you, for I have not seen him with you for two or three nights!"
On that, Allah revealed: 'By the fore-noon, and by the night when it darkens, your Lord (O Muhammad) has neither forsaken you, nor hated you.' (Surah 93: Ayat 1-3)
Hadith - 473
Narrated Jundub Al-Bajali: A lady said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! I see that your friend has delayed (in conveying Qur'an) to you." So there was revealed: 'Your Lord (O Muhammad) has neither forsaken you, not hated you.' (Surah 93: Ayat 1-3)
Hadith - 474
Narrated Al-Bara: While the Prophet (ﷺ) was on a journey, he recited Surat at-Tin (Surah 95) in one of the first two rak`at of the `Isha prayer.
Hadith - 475
Narrated Aisha (the wife of the Prophet): The commencement (of the Divine Inspiration) to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was in the form of true dreams in his sleep, for he never had a dream but it turned out to be true and clear as the bright daylight.
Then he began to like seclusions, so he used to go in seclusion in the cave of Hira where he used to worship Allah continuously for many nights before going back to his family to take the necessary provision (of food) for the stay.
He come back to (his wife) Khadija again to take his provision (of food) likewise, till one day he received the Guidance while he was in the cave of Hira.
An Angel came to him and asked him to read. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) replied, "I do not know how to read."
The Prophet (ﷺ) added, "Then the Angel held me (forcibly) and pressed me so hard that I felt distressed. Then he released me and again asked me to read, and I replied, 'I do not know how to read.'
Thereupon he held me again and pressed me for the second time till I felt distressed. He then released me and asked me to read, but again I replied, 'I do not know how to read.'
Thereupon he held me for the third time and pressed me till I got distressed, and then he released me and said, 'Read, in the Name of your Lord Who has created (all that exists), has created man out of a clot, Read! And your Lord is the Most Generous. Who has taught (the writing) by the pen, has taught man that which he knew not.' (Surah 96: Ayat 1-5)."
Then Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) returned with that experience; and the muscles between his neck and shoulders were trembling till he came upon Khadija (his wife) and said, "Cover me!"
They covered him, and when the state of fear was over, he said to Khadija, "O Khadija! What is wrong with me? I was afraid that something bad might happen to me." Then he told her the story.
Khadija said, "Nay! But receive the good tidings! By Allah, Allah will never disgrace you, for by Allah, you keep good relations with your Kith and kin, speak the truth, help the poor and the destitute, entertain your guests generously and assist those who are stricken with calamities."
Khadija then took him to Waraqa bin Naufal, the son of Khadija's paternal uncle. Waraqa had been converted to Christianity in the Pre-Islamic Period and used to write Arabic and write of the Gospel in Arabic as much as Allah wished him to write. He was an old man and had lost his eyesight.
Khadija said (to Waraqa), "O my cousin! Listen to what your nephew is going to say." Waraqa said, "O my nephew! What have you seen?" The Prophet (ﷺ) then described whatever he had seen.
Waraqa said, "This is the same Angel (Gabriel) who was sent to Moses. I wish I were young." He added some other statement.
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) asked, "Will these people drive me out?" Waraqa said, "Yes, for nobody brought the like of what you have brought, but was treated with hostility.
If I were to remain alive till your day (when you start preaching) then I would support you strongly."
But a short while later Waraqa died and the Divine Inspiration was paused (stopped) for a while so that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was very much grieved.
Hadith - 476
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah: While Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was talking about the period of pause in revelation, he said in his narration, "Once while I was walking, all of a sudden I heard a voice from the sky.
I looked up and saw to my surprise, the same Angel as had visited me in the cave of Hira'. He was sitting on a chair between the sky and the earth.
I got afraid of him and came back home and said, "Wrap me! Wrap me!" So they covered him, and then Allah revealed: 'O you, wrapped up! Arise and warn, and your Lord magnify, and your garments purify and desert the idols' (Surah 74: Ayat 1-5)
Abu Salama said, "(Rijz) are the idols which the people of the Pre-Islamic period used to worship."
After this the revelation started coming frequently and regularly.
Hadith - 477
Narrated Aisha: The commencement of the Divine Inspiration to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was in the form of true dreams.
The Angel came to him and said, "Read, in the Name of your Lord Who has created (all that exists), has created man a clot. Read! And your Lord is Most Generous." (Surah 96: Ayat 1-3)
Hadith - 478
Narrated `Aisha: The commencement of (the Divine Inspirations to) Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was in the form of true dreams.
The Angel came to him and said, "Read! In the Name of your Lord Who has created all exists, has created man from a clot. Read! And your Lord is Most Generous, Who has taught (the writing) by the pen." (Surah 96: Ayat 1-4)
Hadith - 479
Narrated Aisha: The Prophet (ﷺ) returned to Khadija and said, "Wrap me! Wrap me!" (Then the sub-narrator narrated the rest of the narration).
Hadith - 480
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: Abu Jahl said, "If I see Muhammad praying at the Ka`ba, I will tread on his neck." When the Prophet (ﷺ) heard of that, he said, "If he does so, the Angels will snatch him away."
Hadith - 481
Narrated Anas bin Malik: The Prophet (ﷺ) said to Ubai (bin Ka`b), "Allah has ordered me to recite to you: 'Those who disbelieve among the people of the Scripture and among the idolators are not going to stop (from their disbelief)' (Surah 98)"
Ubai said, "Did Allah mention me by name?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Yes." On that, Ubai wept.
Hadith - 482
Narrated Anas bin Malik: The Prophet (ﷺ) said to Ubai, "Allah has ordered me recite Qur'an to you." Ubai asked, "Did Allah mention me by name to you?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Allah has mentioned your name to me." On that, Ubai started weeping.
(The sub-narrator) Qatada added: I have been informed that the Prophet (ﷺ) recited: 'Those who disbelieve among the people of the Scripture," ...to Ubai.
Hadith - 483
Narrated Anas bin Malik: Allah's Prophet said to Ubai bin Ka`b, "Allah has ordered me to recite Qur'an to you." Ubai said, "Did Allah mention me by name to you?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Yes."
Ubai said, "Have I been mentioned by the Lord of the Worlds?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Yes." Then Ubai burst into tears.
Hadith - 484
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Horses are kept for one of three purposes: A man may keep them (for Allah's Cause) to receive a reward in the Hereafter; another may keep them as a means of protection; and a third may keep them to be a burden for him.
As for the man for whom the horse is a source of reward, he is the one who ties it for Allah's Cause, and he ties it with a long rope in a pasture or a garden, then whatever it eats or drinks in that pasture or garden will be added to his good deeds.
And if it breaks its rope and jumps over one or two hills, then, for all its footsteps and its manure, good deeds will be written for him.
And if it passes by a river and drinks of its water though its owner had no intention to water it from that river, even then he will have good deeds written for him. So that horse will be (a source of) reward for such a man.
If a man ties a horse for earning his livelihood and abstaining from asking others for help, and he does not forget Allah's right, i.e. pays its Zakat, and gives it to be used in Allah's Cause, then that horse will be a means of protection for him.
But if a man ties it out of pride and to show off and to excite others, then that horse will be a burden (of sins) for him."
Then Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was asked regarding donkeys. He replied, "Nothing has been revealed to me except this comprehensive Verse which includes everything: 'So whoever does good equal to the weight of an atom (or a smallest ant) shall see it; and whoever does evil equal to the weight of an atom (or a smallest ant) shall see it.'" (Surah 99: Ayat 7-8)
Hadith - 485
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) was asked about donkeys and he replied, 'Nothing has been revealed to me regarding donkeys, except this comprehensive Verse which includes everything: "So whoever does good equal to the weight of an atom (or a smallest ant) shall see it; And whoever, does evil equal to the weight of an atom or a smallest ant shall see it."' (Surah 99: Ayat 7-8)
Hadith - 486
Narrated Anas: When the Prophet (ﷺ) was made to ascend to the Heavens, he said (after his return), 'I came upon a river the banks of which were made of tents of hollow pearls. I asked Gabriel, "What is this (river?)" He replied, "This is the Kauthar."'
Hadith - 487
Narrated Abu Ubaida: I asked `Aisha 'regarding the verse: 'Verily we have granted you the Kauthar.'
She replied, "The Kauthar is a river which has been given to your Prophet (ﷺ) on the banks of which there are (tents of) hollow pearls and its utensils are as numberless as the stars."
Hadith - 488
Narrated Abu Bishr: Sa`id bin Jubair said that Ibn `Abbas said about Al-Kauthar, "That is the good which Allah has bestowed upon His Apostle."
I said to Sa`id bin Jubair, "But the people claim that it is a river in Paradise." Sa`id said, "The river in Paradise is part of the good which Allah has bestowed on His Apostle."
Hadith - 489
Narrated Aisha: When the Surat-An-Nasr, 'When comes the Help of Allah and the conquest,' had been revealed to the Prophet (ﷺ) he did not offer any prayer except that he said therein, "Subhanaka Rabbana wa bihamdika; Allahumma ighfirli (I testify the Uniqueness of our Lord, and all the praises are for Him: O Allah, forgive me)."
Hadith - 490
Narrated Aisha: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to say very often in bowing and prostration (during his prayers), "Subhanaka Allahumma Rabbana wa bihamdika; Allahumma ighfirli," according to the order of the Qur'an.
Hadith - 491
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: `Umar asked the people regarding Allah's Statement: 'When comes the Help of Allah (to you, O Muhammad, against your enemies) and the conquest of Mecca' (Surah 110: Ayah 1)
They replied, "It indicates the future conquest of towns and palaces (by Muslims)."
`Umar said, "What do you say about it, O Ibn `Abbas?" I replied, "(This Surat) indicates the termination of the life of Muhammad. Through it he was informed of the nearness of his death."
Hadith - 492
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: `Umar used to make me sit with the elderly men who had fought in the Battle of Badr. Some of them felt it (did not like that) and said to `Umar, "Why do you bring in this boy to sit with us while we have sons like him?"
`Umar replied, "Because of what you know of his position (i.e. his religious knowledge.)"
One day, `Umar called me and made me sit in the gathering of those people; and I think that he called me just to show them (my religious knowledge).
`Umar then asked them (in my presence), "What do you say about the interpretation of the Statement of Allah: 'When comes Help of Allah (to you O, Muhammad against your enemies) and the conquest (of Mecca)' (Surah 110: Ayah 1)
Some of them said, "We are ordered to praise Allah and ask for His forgiveness when Allah's Help and the conquest (of Mecca) comes to us." Some others kept quiet and did not say anything.
On that, `Umar asked me, "Do you say the same, O Ibn `Abbas?" I replied, "No." He said, "What do you say then?"
I replied, "That is the sign of the death of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) which Allah informed him of. Allah said: '(O Muhammad) When comes the Help of Allah (to you against your enemies) and the conquest (of Mecca) (which is the sign of your death). You should celebrate the praises of your Lord and ask for His Forgiveness, and He is the One Who accepts the repentance and forgives.' (Surah 110: Ayah 3)
On that, `Umar said, "I do not know anything about it other than what you have said."
Hadith - 493
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: When the Verse: 'And warn your tribe of near kindred' (Surah 26: Ayah 214) was revealed, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) went out, and when he had ascended As-Safa mountain, he shouted, "O Sabahah!"
The people said, "Who is that?" Then they gathered around him, whereupon he said, "Do you see? If I inform you that cavalrymen are proceeding up the side of this mountain, will you believe me?" They said, "We have never heard you telling a lie."
Then he said, "I am a plain warner to you of a coming severe punishment." Abu Lahab said, "May you perish! You gathered us only for this reason?" Then Abu Lahab went away. So the Surat Lahab: 'Perish the hands of Abu Lahab!' (Surah 111) was revealed.
Hadith - 494
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: The Prophet (ﷺ) went out towards Al-Batha' and ascended the mountain and shouted, "O Sabahah!" So the Quraish people gathered around him.
He said, "Do you see? If I tell you that an enemy is going to attack you in the morning or in the evening, will you believe me?" They replied, "Yes."
He said, "Then I am a plain warner to you of a coming severe punishment." Abu Lahab said, "Is it for this reason that you have gathered us? May you perish!" Then Allah revealed: 'Perish the hands of Abu Lahab.' (Surah 111)
Hadith - 495
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: Abu Lahab said, "May you perish! Is it for this that you have gathered us?" So there was revealed: 'Perish the hands of Abu Lahab.'
Hadith - 496
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Allah said: 'The son of Adam tells a lie against Me, though he hasn't the right to do so. He abuses me, though he hasn't the right to do so.
As for his telling a lie against Me, it is his saying that I will not recreate him as I created him for the first time. In fact, the first creation was not easier for Me than new creation.
As for his abusing Me, it is his saying that Allah has begotten children, while I am the One, the Self-Sufficient Master Whom all creatures need, I beget not, nor was I begotten, and there is none like unto Me.'"
Hadith - 497
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Allah said: 'The son of Adam tells a lie against Me and he hasn't the right to do so; and he abuses me and he hasn't the right to do so.
His telling a lie against Me is his saying that I will not recreate him as I created him for the first time; and his abusing Me is his saying that Allah has begotten children, while I am the self-sufficient Master, Whom all creatures need, Who begets not nor was He begotten, and there is none like unto Me.'"
Hadith - 498
Narrated Zirr bin Hubaish: I asked Ubai bin Ka`b regarding the two Muawwidhat (Surahs of taking refuge with Allah). He said, "I asked the Prophet (ﷺ) about them.
He said, 'These two Surahs have been recited to me and I have recited them (and are present in the Qur'an).' So, we say as Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said (i.e., they are part of the Qur'an)."
Hadith - 499
Narrated Zirr bin Hubaish: I asked Ubai bin Ka`b, "O Abu Al-Mundhir! Your brother, Ibn Mas`ud said so-and-so (i.e., the two Mu'awwidhat do not belong to the Qur'an)."
Ubai said, "I asked Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) about them, and he said, 'They have been revealed to me,' and I have recited them (as a part of the Qur'an)." So Ubai added, "So we say as Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) has said."