Surah Ya Seen (Ya-Seen)
Hadith - 324
Narrated Abu Dharr: Once I was with the Prophet (ﷺ) in the mosque at the time of sunset. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O Abu Dharr! Do you know where the sun sets?" I replied, "Allah and His Apostle know best."
He said, "It goes and prostrates underneath (Allah's) Throne; and that is Allah's Statement: 'And the sun runs on its fixed course for a term (decreed). And that is the decree of All-Mighty, the All-Knowing.'" (Surah 36: Ayah 38)
Hadith - 325
Narrated Abu Dharr: I asked the Prophet (ﷺ) about the Statement of Allah: 'And the sun runs on fixed course for a term (decreed),' (Surah 36: Ayah 38). He said, "Its course is underneath Allah's Throne."
(Prostration of Sun, trees, stars, mentioned in Qur'an and Hadith does not mean like our prostration but it means that these objects are obedient to their Creator (Allah) and they obey for what they have been created for.)
Surah As-Saffat (Those Angels Lined up in Ranks)
Hadith - 326
Narrated `Abdullah: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Nobody has the right to be better than (Jonah) bin Matta."
Hadith - 327
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "He who says that I am better than Jonah bin Matta, tells a lie."
Surah Sad (Sad)
Hadith - 328
Narrated Al-Awwam: I asked Mujahid regarding the prostration in Surat Sa`d. He said, "Ibn `Abbas was asked the same question and he said, 'Those are they (the prophets) whom Allah had Guided. So follow their guidance.' (Surah 6: Ayah 90)
Ibn `Abbas used to perform a prostration (on reading this Sura)."
Hadith - 329
Narrated Al-Awwam: I asked Mujahid regarding the prostration in Surat Sa`d. He said, "I asked Ibn `Abbas, 'What evidence makes you prostrate?'
He said, 'Don't you recite: "And among his progeny, David and Solomon ... (Surah 6: Ayah 84). Those are they whom Allah had guided. So follow their guidance.' (Surah 6: Ayah 90)"
So David was one of those prophets whom Prophet (Muhammad) (ﷺ) was ordered to follow. David prostrated, so Allah's Messenger (Muhammad) (ﷺ) performed this prostration too.'"
Hadith - 330
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Last night, a demon from the Jinns came to me (or the Prophet (ﷺ) said a similar sentence) to disturb my prayer, but Allah gave me the power to overcome him.
I intended to tie him to one of the pillars of the mosque till the morning so that all of you could see him, but then I remembered the Statement of my brother Solomon: 'My Lord! Forgive me and bestow on me a kingdom such as shall not belong to any other after me.' (Surah 38: Ayah 35)"
The narrator added: Then he (the Prophet) dismissed him, rejected.
Hadith - 331
Narrated Masruq: We came upon `Abdullah bin Mas`ud and he said, 'O people! If somebody knows something, he can say it, but if he does not know it, he should say, "Allah knows better," for it is a sign of having knowledge to say about something which one does not know, "Allah knows better."
Allah said to His Prophet: 'Say (O Muhammad!) No wage do I ask of You for this (Qur'an) nor am I one of the pretenders (a person who pretends things which do not exist)' (Surah 38: Ayah 86)
Now I will tell you about Ad-Dukhan (the smoke). Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) invited the Quraish to embrace Islam, but they delayed their response.
So he said, "O Allah! Help me against them by sending on them seven years of famine similar to the seven years of famine of Joseph."
So the famine year overtook them and everything was destroyed till they ate dead animals and skins. People started imagining to see smoke between them and the sky because of severe hunger.
Allah said: 'Then watch you for the Day that the sky will bring forth a kind of smoke plainly visible, covering the people ... This is painful torment.' (Surah 44: Ayat 10-11)
(So they invoked Allah), "Our Lord! Remove the punishment from us, really we are believers." How can there be an (effectual) reminder for them when an Apostle, explaining things clearly, has already come to them? Then they had turned away from him and said: 'One taught (by a human being), a madman?' 'We shall indeed remove punishment for a while, but truly, you will revert (to disbelief).' (Surah 44: Ayat 12-15)
Will the punishment be removed on the Day of Resurrection?"
`Abdullah added, "The punishment was removed from them for a while but they reverted to disbelief, so Allah destroyed them on the Day of Badr.
Allah said: 'The day We shall seize you with a mighty grasp. We will indeed (then) exact retribution.' (Surah 44: Ayah 16)"
Surah Az-Zumar (The Successive Groups)
Hadith - 332
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: Some pagans who committed murders in great number and committed illegal sexual intercourse excessively, came to Muhammad and said, "O Muhammad! Whatever you say and invite people to, is good, but we wish if you could inform us whether we can make an expiation for our (past evil) deeds."
So the Divine Verses came: 'Those who invoke not with Allah any other god, nor kill such life as Allah has forbidden except for just cause, nor commit illegal sexual intercourse.' (Surah 25: Ayah 68)
And there was also revealed: 'Say: O My slaves who have transgressed against their souls! Despair not of the Mercy of Allah...' (Surah 39: Ayah 53)
Hadith - 333
Narrated `Abdullah: A (Jewish) Rabbi came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and he said, "O Muhammad! We learn that Allah will put all the heavens on one finger, and the earths on one finger, and the trees on one finger, and the water and the dust on one finger, and all the other created beings on one finger. Then He will say, 'I am the King.'"
Thereupon the Prophet (ﷺ) smiled so that his pre-molar teeth became visible, and that was the confirmation of the Rabbi.
Then Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) recited: 'They made not a just estimate of Allah such as is due to Him. And on the Day of Resurrection the whole of the earth will be grasped by His Hand, and the heavens will be rolled up in His Right Hand. Glorified is He, and High is He above all that they associate as partners with Him.' (Surah 39: Ayah 67)
Hadith - 334
Narrated Abu Huraira: I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "Allah will hold the whole earth, and roll all the heavens up in His Right Hand, and then He will say, 'I am the King; where are the kings of the earth?'"
Hadith - 335
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I will be the first to raise my head after the second blowing of the trumpet and will see Moses hanging on the Throne, and I will not know whether he had been in that state all the time or after the blowing of the trumpet."
Hadith - 336
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Between the two blowings of the trumpet there will be forty."
The people said, "O Abu Huraira! Forty days?" I refused to reply. They said, "Forty years?" I refused to reply, and added: Everything of the human body will decay except the coccyx bone (of the tail) and from that bone Allah will reconstruct the whole body.
Surah Ghafir (The Forgiver)
Hadith - 337
Narrated `Urwa bin Az-Zubair: I asked `Abdullah bin `Amr bin Al-`As to inform me of the worst thing the pagans had done to Allah's Apostle.
He said: "While Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was praying in the courtyard of the Ka`ba, `Uqba bin Abi Mu'ait came and seized Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) by the shoulder and twisted his garment round his neck and throttled him severely.
Abu Bakr came and seized `Uqba's shoulder and threw him away from Allah's Apostle and said, "Would you kill a man because he says: 'My Lord is Allah,' and has come to you with clear Signs from your Lord?" (Surah 40: Ayah 28)
Surah Fussilat (Verses Perfectly Explained)
Hadith - 338
Narrated Ibn Mas`ud: (Regarding) the Verse: 'And you have not been screening against yourself lest your ears, and your eyes and your skins should testify against you...' (Surah 41: Ayah 22) - While two persons from Quraish and their brother-in-law from Thaqif (or two persons from Thaqif and their brother-in-law from Quraish) were in a house, they said to each other, "Do you think that Allah hears our talks?"
Some said, "He hears a portion thereof." Others said, "If He can hear a portion of it, He can hear all of it."
Then the following Verse was revealed: 'And you have not been screening against yourself lest your ears, and your eyes and your skins should testify against you...' (Surah 41: Ayah 22)
Hadith - 339
Narrated `Abdullah: There gathered near the House (i.e. the Ka`ba) two Quraishi persons and a person from Thaqif (or two persons from Thaqif and one from Quraish), and all of them with very fat bellies but very little intelligence.
One of them said, "Do you think that Allah hears what we say?" Another said, "He hears us when we talk in a loud voice, but He doesn't hear us when we talk in a low tone."
The third said, "If He can hear when we talk in a loud tone, then He can also hear when we speak in a low tone."
Then Allah, the Honorable, the Majestic revealed: 'And you have not been screening against yourself lest your ears, and eyes and your skins should testify against you...' (Surah 41: Ayat 22-23)
This hadith has been narrated through another chain as well.
Surah Ash-Shura (Consultation)
Hadith - 340
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: That he was asked (regarding): 'Except to be kind to me for my Kinship with you' (Surah 42: Ayah 23). Sa`id bin Jubair (who was present then) said, "It means here (to show what is due for) the relatives of Muhammad."
On that, Ibn `Abbas said: You have hurried in giving the answer! There was no branch of the tribe of Quraish but the Prophet (ﷺ) had relatives therein. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I do not want anything from (you) except to be kind to me for my Kinship with you."
Surah Az-Zukhruf (Ornaments)
Hadith - 341
Narrated Ya`la: I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) reciting when on the pulpit: 'They will cry, "O Malik (Keeper of Hell)! Let your Lord make an end of us."'
Surah Ad-Dukhan (The Haze)
Hadith - 342
Narrated `Abdullah: Five things have passed, i.e. the smoke, the defeat of the Romans, the splitting of the moon, Al-Batsha (the defeat of the infidels in the battle of Badr) and Al-Lizam (the punishment).
Hadith - 343
Narrated `Abdullah: It (i.e., the imagined smoke) was because when the Quraish refused to obey the Prophet, he asked Allah to afflict them with years of famine similar to those of (Prophet) Joseph.
So they were stricken with famine and fatigue, so-much-so that they ate even bones. A man would look towards the sky and imagine seeing something like smoke between him and the sky because of extreme fatigue.
So Allah revealed: 'Then watch you for the Day that the sky will bring forth a kind of smoke plainly visible, covering the people; this is a painful torment' (Surah 44: Ayat 10-11).
Then someone (Abu Sufyan) came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Invoke Allah to send rain for the tribes of Mudar for they are on the verge of destruction."
On that, the Prophet (ﷺ) said (astonishingly), "Shall I invoke Allah for the tribes of Mudar? Verily, you are a brave man!" But the Prophet (ﷺ) prayed for rain and it rained for them.
Then the Verse was revealed, 'But truly you will return (to disbelief)...' (Surah 44: Ayah 15)
(When the famine was over and) they restored prosperity and welfare, they reverted to their ways (of heathenism), whereupon Allah revealed: 'On the Day when We shall seize you with a Mighty Grasp. We will indeed (then) exact retribution.' (Surah 44: Ayah 16)
The narrator said, "That was the day of the Battle of Badr."
Hadith - 344
Narrated `Abdullah: It is a sign of having knowledge that, when you do not know something, you say: "Allah knows better."
Allah said to his Prophet: 'Say: No wage do I ask of you for this (Qur'an), nor am I one of the pretenders (a person who pretends things which do not exist)' (Surah 38: Ayah 86)
When the Quraish troubled and stood against the Prophet (ﷺ), he said, "O Allah! Help me against them by afflicting them with seven years of famine like the seven years of Joseph."
So they were stricken with a year of famine during which they ate bones and dead animals because of too much suffering, and one of them would see something like smoke between him and the sky because of hunger.
Then they said: Our Lord! Remove the torment from us, really we are believers. (Surah 44: Ayah 12)
And then it was said to the Prophet (by Allah), "If we remove it from them, they will revert to their ways (of heathenism)."
So the Prophet (ﷺ) invoked his Lord, who removed the punishment from them, but later they reverted (to heathenism), whereupon Allah punished them on the day of the Battle of Badr, and that is what Allah's Statement indicates: 'Then watch for the day that the sky will bring forth a kind of smoke plainly visible...we will indeed (then) exact retribution.' (Surah 44: Ayah 10)
Hadith - 345
Narrated Masruq: I came upon `Abdullah and he said, 'When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) invited Quraish (to Islam), they disbelieved him and stood against him. So he (the Prophet) said, "O Allah! Help me against them by afflicting them with seven years of famine similar to the seven years of Joseph."
So they were stricken with a year of drought that destroyed everything, and they started eating dead animals, and if one of them got up he would see something like smoke between him and the sky from the severe fatigue and hunger."
`Abdullah then recited: 'Then watch you for the Day that the sky will bring forth a kind of smoke plainly visible, covering the people. This is a painful torment... (till he reached) ... We shall indeed remove the punishment for a while, but truly you will revert (to heathenism): (Surah 44: Ayat 10-15)
`Abdullah added: "Will the punishment be removed from them on the Day of Resurrection?"
He added: "The severe grasp" was the Day of the Battle of Badr.
Hadith - 346
Narrated `Abdullah: Allah sent (the Prophet) Muhammad and said: 'Say, No wage do I ask of you for this (Qur'an) nor am I one of the pretenders (i.e. a person who pretends things which do not exist) (Surah 38: Ayah 68).
When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saw Quraish standing against him, he said, "O Allah! Help me against them by afflicting them with seven years of famine similar to the seven years (of famine) of Joseph."
So they were afflicted with a year of drought that destroyed everything, and they ate bones and hides. (One of them said), "And they ate hides and dead animals, and (it seemed to them that) something like smoke was coming out of the earth.
So Abu Sufyan came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said, "O Muhammad! Your people are on the verge of destruction! Please invoke Allah to relieve them." So the Prophet (ﷺ) invoked Allah for them (and the famine disappeared).
He said to them, "You will revert (to heathenism) after that." `Abdullah then recited: 'Then watch you for the Day that the sky will bring forth a kind of smoke plainly visible...but truly you will revert (to disbelief).'
He added, "Will the punishment be removed from them in the Hereafter? The smoke and the grasp and the Al-Lizam have all passed."
One of the sub-narrators said, "The splitting of the moon." And another said, "The defeat of the Romans (has passed)."
Hadith - 347
Narrated `Abdullah: Five things have passed: Al-Lizam, the defeat of the Romans, the mighty grasp, the splitting of the moon, and the smoke.