Hadith - 348
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Allah said, 'The son of Adam hurts me for he abuses Time though I am Time: in My Hands are all things, and I cause the revolution of day and night.
Hadith - 349
Narrated Yusuf bin Mahak: Marwan had been appointed as the governor of Hijaz by Muawiya. He delivered a sermon and mentioned Yazid bin Muawiya so that the people might take the oath of allegiance to him as the successor of his father (Muawiya). Then `Abdur Rahman bin Abu Bakr told him something whereupon Marwan ordered that he be arrested. But `Abdur-Rahman entered `Aisha's house and they could not arrest him. Marwan said, "It is he (`AbdurRahman) about whom Allah revealed this Verse: -- 'And the one who says to his parents: 'Fie on you! Do you hold out the promise to me..?'" On that, `Aisha said from behind a screen, "Allah did not reveal anything from the Qur'an about us except what was connected with the declaration of my innocence (of the slander).
Hadith - 350
Narrated `Aisha: (the wife of the Prophet), I never saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) laughing loudly enough to enable me to see his uvula, but he used to smile only. And whenever he saw clouds or winds, signs of deep concern would appear on his face. I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! When people see clouds they usually feel happy, hoping that it would rain, while I see that when you see clouds, one could notice signs of dissatisfaction on your face." He said, "O `Aisha! What is the guarantee for me that there will be no punishment in it, since some people were punished with a wind? Verily, some people saw (received) the punishment, but (while seeing the cloud) they said, 'This cloud will give us rain.
Hadith - 351
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Allah created His creation, and when He had finished it, the womb, got up and caught hold of Allah whereupon Allah said, "What is the matter?' On that, it said, 'I seek refuge with you from those who sever the ties of Kith and kin.' On that Allah said, 'Will you be satisfied if I bestow My favors on him who keeps your ties, and withhold My favors from him who severs your ties?' On that it said, 'Yes, O my Lord!' Then Allah said, 'That is for you.' " Abu Huraira added: If you wish, you can recite: "Would you then if you were given the authority. do mischief in the land and sever your ties of kinship.
Hadith - 352
Narrated Abu Huraira: (As above, No. 354, but added) Then Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Recite if you wish: "Would you then.
Hadith - 353
Narrated Muawiya bin Abi Al-Muzarrad: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), said, "Recite if you wish: Would you then if you were given the authority.
Hadith - 354
Narrated Aslam: While Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was proceeding at night during one of his journeys and `Umar bin Al-Khattab was traveling beside him, `Umar asked him about something but Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) did not reply. He asked again, but he did not reply, and then he asked (for the third time) but he did not reply. On that, `Umar bin Al-Khattab said to himself, "Thakilat Ummu `Umar (May `Umar's mother lose her son)! I asked Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) three times but he did not reply." `Umar then said, "I made my camel run faster and went ahead of the people, and I was afraid that some Qur'anic Verses might be revealed about me. But before getting involved in any other matter. I heard somebody calling me. I said to myself, 'I fear that some Qur'anic Verses have been revealed about me,' and so I went to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and greeted him. He (Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) ) said, 'Tonight a Sura has been revealed to me, and it is dearer to me than that on which the sun rises (i.e. the world)' Then he recited: "Verily, We have given you a manifest victory.
Hadith - 355
Narrated Anas: "Verily, We have given you (O Muhammad) a manifest victory.' refers to Al-Hudaibiya Peace treaty.
Hadith - 356
Narrated `Abdullah bin Mughaffal: On the Day of the Conquest of Mecca, the Prophet (ﷺ) recited Surat Al-Fath in a vibrating and pleasant voice. (Muawaiya, the subnarrator said, "If I could imitate the recitation of the Prophet (ﷺ) I would do so.
Hadith - 357
Narrated Al-Mughira: The Prophet (ﷺ) used to offer night prayers till his feet became swollen. Somebody said, to him," "Allah has forgiven you, your faults of the past and those to follow." On that, he said, "Shouldn't I be a thankful slave of Allah)?
Hadith - 358
Narrated Aisha: The Prophet (ﷺ) used to offer prayer at night (for such a long time) that his feet used to crack. I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Why do you do it since Allah has forgiven you your faults of the past and those to follow?" He said, "Shouldn't I love to be a thankful slave (of Allah)?' When he became old, he prayed while sitting, but if he wanted to perform a bowing, he would get up, recite (some other verses) and then perform the bowing.
Hadith - 359
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Amr bin Al-As: This Verse: 'Verily We have sent you (O Muhammad) as a witness, as a bringer of glad tidings and as a warner.' (48.8) which is in the Qur'an, appears in the Torah thus: 'Verily We have sent you (O Muhammad) as a witness, as a bringer of glad tidings and as a warner, and as a protector for the illiterates (i.e., the Arabs.) You are my slave and My Apostle, and I have named you Al-Mutawakkil (one who depends upon Allah). You are neither hard-hearted nor of fierce character, nor one who shouts in the markets. You do not return evil for evil, but excuse and forgive. Allah will not take you unto Him till He guides through you a crocked (curved) nation on the right path by causing them to say: "None has the right to be worshipped but Allah." With such a statement He will cause to open blind eyes, deaf ears and hardened hearts.
Hadith - 360
Narrated Al-Bara: While a man from the companions of the Prophet (ﷺ) was reciting (Qur'an) and his horse was tied in the house, the horse got startled and started jumping. The man came out, looked around but could not find anything, yet the horse went on jumping. The next morning he mentioned that to the Prophet. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "That was the tranquility (calmness) which descended because of the recitation of the Qur'an.
Hadith - 361
Narrated Jabir: We were one thousand and four hundred on the Day of Al-Hudaibiya.
Hadith - 362
Narrated `Uqba bin Sahban: `Abdullah bin Mughaffal Al-Muzani who was one of those who witnessed (the event of) the tree, said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) forbade the throwing of small stones (with two fingers)."
Hadith - 363
Abdullah bin Al-Mughaffal Al-Muzani also said: "The Prophet (ﷺ) also forbade urinating at the place where one takes a bath.
Hadith - 364
Narrated Thabit bin Ad-Dahhak: who was one of the companions of the tree (those who swore allegiance to the Prophet (ﷺ) beneath the tree at Al-Hudaibiya): .
Hadith - 365
Narrated Habib bin Abi Thabit: I went to Abu Wa'il to ask him (about those who had rebelled against `Ali). On that, Abu Wa'il said, "We were at Siffin (a city on the bank of the Euphrates, the place where me battle took place between `Ali and Muawiya) A man said, "Will you be on the side of those who are called to consult Allah's Book (to settle the dispute)?" `Ali said, 'Yes (I agree that we should settle the matter in the light of the Qur'an)." ' Some people objected to `Ali's agreement and wanted to fight. On that Sahl bin Hunaif said, 'Blame yourselves! I remember how, on the day of Al-Hudaibiya (i.e. the peace treaty between the Prophet (ﷺ) and the Quraish pagans), if we had been allowed to choose fighting, we would have fought (the pagans). At that time `Umar came (to the Prophet) and said, "Aren't we on the right (path) and they (pagans) in the wrong? Won't our killed persons go to Paradise, and theirs in the Fire?" The Prophet replied, "Yes." `Umar further said, "Then why should we let our religion be degraded and return before Allah has settled the matter between us?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O the son of Al-Khattab! No doubt, I am Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and Allah will never neglect me." So `Umar left the place angrily and he was so impatient that he went to Abu Bakr and said, "O Abu Bakr! Aren't we on the right (path) and they (pagans) on the wrong?" Abu Bakr said, "O the son of Al-Khattab! He is Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), and Allah will never neglect him." Then Sura Al-Fath (The Victory) was revealed.
Hadith - 366
Narrated Ibn Abi Mulaika: The two righteous persons were about to be ruined. They were Abu Bakr and `Umar who raised their voices in the presence of the Prophet (ﷺ) when a mission from Bani Tamim came to him. One of the two recommended Al-Aqra' bin Habeas, the brother of Bani Mujashi (to be their governor) while the other recommended somebody else. (Nafi`, the sub-narrator said, I do not remember his name). Abu Bakr said to `Umar, "You wanted nothing but to oppose me!" `Umar said, "I did not intend to oppose you." Their voices grew loud in that argument, so Allah revealed: 'O you who believe! Raise not your voices above the voice of the Prophet.' (49.2) Ibn Az-Zubair said, "Since the revelation of this Verse, `Umar used to speak in such a low tone that the Prophet (ﷺ) had to ask him to repeat his statements." But Ibn Az-Zubair did not mention the same about his (maternal) grandfather (i.e. Abu Bakr).
Hadith - 367
Narrated Anas bin Malik: The Prophet (ﷺ) missed Thabit bin Qais for a period (So he inquired about him). A man said, "O Allah's Apostle! I will bring you his news." So he went to Thabit and found him sitting in his house and bowing his head. The man said to Thabit, "What is the matter with you?" Thabit replied that it was an evil affair, for he used to raise his voice above the voice of the Prophet (ﷺ) and so all his good deeds had been annulled, and he considered himself as one of the people of the Fire. Then the man returned to the Prophet (ﷺ) and told him that Thabit had said, so-and-so. (Musa bin Anas) said: The man returned to Thabit with great glad tidings. The Prophet (ﷺ) said to the man. "Go back to him and say to him: "You are not from the people of the Hell Fire, but from the people of Paradise."
Hadith - 368
Narrated `Abdullah bin Az-Zubair: A group of Bani Tamim came to the Prophet (and requested him to appoint a governor for them). Abu Bakr said, "Appoint Al-Qaqa bin Mabad." `Umar said, "Appoint Al-Aqra' bin Habeas." On that Abu Bakr said (to `Umar). "You did not want but to oppose me!" `Umar replied "I did not intend to oppose you!" So both of them argued till their voices grew loud. So the following Verse was revealed: 'O you who believe! Be not forward.
Hadith - 369
Narrated Anas: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The people will be thrown into the (Hell) Fire and it will say: "Are there any more (to come)?' (50.30) till Allah puts His Foot over it and it will say, 'Qati! Qati! (Enough Enough).
Hadith - 370
Narrated Abu Huraira: (that the Prophet (ﷺ) said) "It will be said to the Hell, 'Are you filled?' It will say, 'Are there any more (to come)?' On that Allah will put His Foot on it, and it will say 'Qati! Qati! (Enough! Enough).
Hadith - 371
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Paradise and the Fire (Hell) argued, and the Fire (Hell) said, "I have been given the privilege of receiving the arrogant and the tyrants.' Paradise said, 'What is the matter with me? Why do only the weak and the humble among the people enter me?' On that, Allah said to Paradise. 'You are My Mercy which I bestow on whoever I wish of my servants.' Then Allah said to the (Hell) Fire, 'You are my (means of) punishment by which I punish whoever I wish of my slaves. And each of you will have its fill.' As for the Fire (Hell), it will not be filled till Allah puts His Foot over it whereupon it will say, 'Qati! Qati!' At that time it will be filled, and its different parts will come closer to each other; and Allah will not wrong any of His created beings. As regards Paradise, Allah will create a new creation to fill it with.
Hadith - 372
Narrated Jarir bin `Abdullah: We were in the company of the Prophet (ﷺ) on a fourteenth night (of the lunar month), and he looked at the (full) moon and said, "You will see your Lord as you see this moon, and you will have no trouble in looking at Him. So, whoever can, should not miss the offering of prayers before sunrise (Fajr prayer) and before sunset (`Asr prayer)." Then the Prophet (ﷺ) recited: 'And celebrate the praises of your Lord before the rising of the sun and before (its) setting.
Hadith - 373
Narrated Mujahid: Ibn `Abbas said, "Allah ordered His Prophet to celebrate Allah's praises after all prayers." He refers to His Statement: 'After the prayers.
Hadith - 374
Narrated Um Salama: I complained to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) that I was sick, so he said, "Perform the Tawaf (of Ka`ba at Mecca) while riding behind the people (who are performing the Tawaf on foot)." So I performed the Tawaf while Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was offering the prayer by the side of the Ka`ba and was reciting: 'By the Mount (Saini) and by a Decree Inscribed.
Hadith - 375
Narrated Jubair bin Mut`im: I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) reciting Surat at-Tur in the Maghrib prayer, and when he reached the Verse: 'Were they created by nothing, Or were they themselves the creators, Or did they create the Heavens and the Earth? Nay, but they have no firm belief Or do they own the treasures of Your Lord? Or have they been given the authority to do as they like...' (52.35-37) my heart was about to fly (when I realized this firm argument).
Hadith - 376
Narrated Masruq: I said to `Aisha, "O Mother! Did Prophet Muhammad see his Lord?" Aisha said, "What you have said makes my hair stand on end ! Know that if somebody tells you one of the following three things, he is a liar: Whoever tells you that Muhammad saw his Lord, is a liar." Then Aisha recited the Verse: 'No vision can grasp Him, but His grasp is over all vision. He is the Most Courteous Well-Acquainted with all things.' (6.103) 'It is not fitting for a human being that Allah should speak to him except by inspiration or from behind a veil.' (42.51) `Aisha further said, "And whoever tells you that the Prophet knows what is going to happen tomorrow, is a liar." She then recited: 'No soul can know what it will earn tomorrow.' (31.34) She added: "And whoever tell you that he concealed (some of Allah's orders), is a liar." Then she recited: 'O Apostle! Proclaim (the Message) which has been sent down to you from your Lord..' (5.67) `Aisha added. "But the Prophet (ﷺ) saw Gabriel in his true form twice.
Hadith - 377
Narrated `Abdullah: Regarding the Verses: 'And was at a distance of but two bow-lengths or (even) nearer; So did (Allah) convey the Inspiration to His slave (Gabriel) and then he Gabriel) conveyed (that to Muhammad...' (53.9-10) Ibn Mas`ud narrated to us that the Prophet (ﷺ) had seen Gabriel with six hundred wings.
Hadith - 378
Narrated Ash-Shaibani: I asked Zirr about the Statement of Allah: 'And was at a distance of but two bow-lengths or (even) nearer. So did Allah convey the Inspiration to His slave (Gabriel) and then he (Gabriel) conveyed that to Muhammad.' (53.10) He said, "Abdullah (bin Mas`ud) informed us that Muhammad had seen Gabriel with six hundred wings.
Hadith - 379
Narrated `Abdullah: (regarding the revelation) Truly he (Muhammad) did see of the signs of his Lord; the Greatest!' (53.18) The Prophet (ﷺ) saw a green screen covering the horizon.
Hadith - 380
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: (regarding His Statement about the Lat and the `Uzza: Lat was originally a man who used to mix Sawiq for the pilgrim).
Hadith - 381
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Whomever takes an oath in which he mentions Lat and `Uzza (forgetfully), should say: None has the right to be worshipped but Allah, and whoever says to his companion. 'Come along, let us gamble' must give alms (as an expiation).
Hadith - 382
Narrated `Urwa: I asked `Aisha (regarding the Sai between As Safa and Al-Marwa). She said, "Out of reverence to the idol Manat which was placed in Al-Mushailal, those who used to assume Ihram in its name, used not to perform Sai between As-Safa and Al-Marwa, so Allah revealed: 'Verily! The As-Safa and Al-Marwa (two mountains at Mecca) are among the symbols of Allah.' (2.158). Thereupon, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and the Muslims used to perform Sai (between them)." Sufyan said: The (idol) Manat was at Al-Mushailal in Qudaid. `Aisha added, "The Verse was revealed in connection with the Ansar. They and (the tribe of) Ghassan used to assume lhram in the name of Manat before they embraced Islam." `Aisha added, "There were men from the Ansar who used to assume lhram in the name of Manat which was an idol between Mecca and Medina. They said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! We used not to perform the Tawaf (Sai) between As-Safa and Al-Marwa out of reverence to Manat.
Hadith - 383
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: The Prophet (ﷺ) performed a prostration when he finished reciting Surat-an-Najm, and all the Muslims and pagans and Jinns and human beings prostrated along with him.
Hadith - 384
Narrated `Abdullah: The first Sura in which a prostration was mentioned, was Sura An-Najm (The Star). Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) prostrated (while reciting it), and everybody behind him prostrated except a man whom I saw taking a hand-full of dust in his hand and prostrated on it. Later I saw that man killed as an infidel, and he was Umaiya bin Khalaf.