Surah Al-Mumtahinah (The Test of Faith)
Hadith - 410
Narrated `Ali: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) sent me along with Az-Zubair and Al-Miqdad and said, "Proceed till you reach a place called Raudat-Khakh where there is a lady travelling in a howda on a camel. She has a letter. Take the letter from her."
So we set out, and our horses ran at full pace till we reached Raudat Khakh, and behold, we saw the lady and said (to her), "Take out the letter!" She said, "I have no letter with me."
We said, "Either you take out the letter or we will strip you of your clothes." So she took the letter out of her hair braid.
We brought the letter to the Prophet (ﷺ) and behold, it was addressed by Hatib bin Abi Balta'a to some pagans at Mecca, informing them of some of the affairs of the Prophet (ﷺ). The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "What is this, O Hatib?"
Hatib replied, "Do not be hasty with me, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! I am an Ansari man and do not belong to them (Quraish infidels) while the emigrants who were with you had their relatives who used to protect their families and properties at Mecca.
So, to compensate for not having blood relation with them, I intended to do them some favor so that they might protect my relatives (at Mecca), and I did not do this out of disbelief or an inclination to desert my religion."
The Prophet (ﷺ) then said (to his companions), "He (Hatib) has told you the truth." `Umar said, "O Allah's Apostle! Allow me to chop his head off!"
The Apostle said, "He is one of those who witnessed (fought in) the Battle of Badr, and what do you know, perhaps Allah looked upon the people of Badr (Badr warriors) and said, 'Do what you want, as I have forgiven you.'"
(`Amr, a sub-narrator, said,: This Verse was revealed about him (Hatib): 'O you who believe! Take not My enemies and your enemies as friends or protectors' (Surah 60: Ayah 1))
Narrated `Ali: Sufyan was asked whether (the Verse): 'Take not My enemies and your enemies...' was revealed in connection with Hatib.
Sufyan replied, "This occurs only in the narration of the people. I memorized the Hadith from `Amr, not overlooking even a single letter thereof, and I do not know of anybody who remembered it by heart other than myself."
Hadith - 411
Narrated `Urwa: Aisha, the wife of the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to examine the believing women who migrated to him in accordance with this Verse: 'O Prophet! When believing women come to you to take the oath of allegiance to you... Verily! Allah is Oft-Forgiving, Most Merciful' (Surah 60: Ayah 12)
`Aisha said, 'And if any of the believing women accepted the condition (assigned in the above-mentioned Verse), Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) would say to her, "I have accepted your pledge of allegiance."
He would only say that, for, by Allah, his hand never touched any lady during that pledge of allegiance. He did not receive their pledge except by saying, "I have accepted your pledge of allegiance for that."'
Hadith - 412
Narrated Um Atiya: We took the oath of allegiance to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and he recited to us: 'They will not associate anything in worship with Allah,' and forbade us to bewail the dead.
Thereupon a lady withdrew her hand (refrained from taking the oath of allegiance), and said, "But such-and-such lady lamented over one of my relatives, so I must reward (do the same over the dead relatives of) hers."
The Prophet (ﷺ) did not object to that, so she went (there) and returned to the Prophet (ﷺ) so he accepted her pledge of allegiance.
Hadith - 413
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: Regarding the saying of Allah: 'And they will not disobey you in any just matter' (Surah 60: Ayah 12): That was one of the conditions which Allah imposed on (the believing) women (who came to take the oath of allegiance to the Prophet (ﷺ)).
Hadith - 414
Narrated 'Ubada bin As-Samit: While we were with the Prophet (ﷺ), he said, "Will you swear to me the pledge of allegiance that you will not worship any thing besides Allah, will not commit illegal sexual intercourse, and will not steal?" Then he recited the Verse concerning the women.
Sufyan, the subnarrator, often said that the Prophet (ﷺ) added, "Whoever among you fulfills his pledge, will receive his reward from Allah, and whoever commits any of those sins and receives the legal punishment (in this life), his punishment will be an expiation for that sin; and whoever commits any of those sins and Allah screens him, then it is up to Allah to punish or forgive them."
Hadith - 415
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: I witnessed the `Id-al-Fitr prayer with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), Abu Bakr, `Umar and `Uthman; and all of them offered it before delivering the sermon, and then delivered the sermon.
Once the Prophet (after completing the prayer and the sermon) came down, as if I am now looking at him waving at the men with his hand to sit down, and walked through them till he, along with Bilal, reached (the rows of) the women.
Then he recited: 'O Prophet! When believing women come to you to take the oath of allegiance that they will not worship anything other than Allah, will not steal, will not commit illegal sexual intercourse, will not kill their children, and will not utter slander, intentionally forging falsehood (by making illegal children belonging to their husbands)'...(Surah 60: Ayah 12)
Having finished, he said, "Do you agree to that?" One lady, other than whom none replied to the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Yes, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)!" (The sub-narrator, Al-Hasan did not know who the lady was.)
Then the Prophet (ﷺ) said to them, "Will you give alms?" Thereupon Bilal spread out his garment and the women started throwing big rings and small rings into Bilal's garment.
Surah As-Saff (The Solid Ranks)
Hadith - 416
Narrated Jubair bin Mut`im: I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, 'I have several names: I am Muhammad and I am Ahmad, and I am Al-Mahi with whom Allah obliterates Kufr (disbelief), and I am Al-Hashir (gatherer) at whose feet (i.e. behind whom) the people will be gathered (on the Day of Resurrection), and I am Al-Aqib (i.e. who succeeds the other prophets in bringing about good).'
Surah Al-Jumu'ah (Friday Congregation)
Hadith - 417
Narrated Abu Huraira: While we were sitting with the Prophet (ﷺ), Surat Al-Jumu'a was revealed to him, and when the Verse, "And He (Allah) has sent him (Muhammad) also to other (Muslims)...' (Surah 62: Ayah 3) was recited by the Prophet (ﷺ), I said, "Who are they, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)?"
The Prophet (ﷺ) did not reply till I repeated my question thrice. At that time, Salman Al-Farisi was with us.
So Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) put his hand on Salman, saying, "If Faith were at (the place of) Ath-Thuraiya (pleiades, the highest star), even then (some men or man) from these people (i.e. Salman's folk) would attain it."
Hadith - 418
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Then some men from these people would attain it."
Hadith - 419
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah: A caravan of merchandise arrived at Medina on a Friday while we were with the Prophet (ﷺ). All the people left (the Prophet (ﷺ) and headed for the caravan) except twelve persons.
Then Allah revealed: 'But when they see some bargain or some amusement, they disperse headlong to it.' (Surah 62: Ayah 11)
Surah Al-Munafiqun (The Hypocrites)
Hadith - 420
Narrated Zaid bin Arqam: While I was taking part in a Ghazwa, I heard `Abdullah bin Ubai (bin Abi Salul) saying, "Don't spend on those who are with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), that they may disperse and go away from him. If we return (to Medina), surely, the more honorable will expel the meaner amongst them."
I reported that (saying) to my uncle or to `Umar who, in his turn, informed the Prophet (ﷺ) of it. The Prophet (ﷺ) called me and I narrated to him the whole story.
Then Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) sent for `Abdullah bin Ubai and his companions, and they took an oath that they did not say that. So Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) disbelieved my saying and believed his.
I was distressed as I never was before. I stayed at home and my uncle said to me, "You just wanted Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) to disbelieve your statement and hate you."
So Allah revealed (the Sura beginning with), 'When the hypocrites come to you' (Surah 63: Ayah 1). The Prophet (ﷺ) then sent for me and recited it and said, "O Zaid! Allah confirmed your statement."
Hadith - 421
Narrated Zaid bin Arqam: I was with my uncle and I heard `Abdullah bin Ubai bin Salul saying, "Don't spend on those who are with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) that they may disperse and go away from him."
He also said, "If we return to Medina, surely, the more honorable will expel the meaner."
So I informed my uncle of that and then my uncle informed Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) thereof. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) sent for `Abdullah bin Ubai and his companions. They swore that they did not say anything of that sort.
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) deemed their statement true and rejected mine. Thereof I became as distressed as I have never been before, and stayed at home.
Then Allah revealed (Surat Al-Munafiqin): 'When the hypocrites come to you...(Surah 63: Ayah 1). They are the ones who say: Spend nothing on those who are with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)... (Surah 63: Ayah 7). Verily the more honorable will expel therefrom the meaner...' (Surah 63: Ayat 7-8)
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) sent for me and recited that Sura for me and said, "Allah has confirmed your statement."
Hadith - 422
Narrated Zaid bin Arqam: When `Abdullah bin Ubai said, "Do not spend on those who are with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)," and also said, "If we return to Medina," I informed the Prophet (ﷺ) of his saying.
The Ansar blamed me for that, and `Abdullah bin Ubai swore that he did not say. I returned to my house and slept. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) then called me and I went to him.
He said, "Allah has confirmed your statement." The Verse: "They are the one who say: Spend nothing..." (Surah 63: Ayah 7) was revealed.
Hadith - 423
Narrated Zaid bin Arqam: We went out with the Prophet (ﷺ) on a journey and the people suffered from lack of provisions.
So `Abdullah bin Ubai said to his companions, "Don't spend on those who are with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), that they may disperse and go away from him." He also said, "If we return to Medina, surely, the more honorable will expel therefrom the meaner."
So I went to the Prophet (ﷺ) and informed him of that. He sent for `Abdullah bin Ubai and asked him, but `Abdullah bin Ubai swore that he did not say so.
The people said, "Zaid told a lie to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)." What they said distressed me very much.
Later, Allah revealed the confirmation of my statement in his saying: 'When the hypocrites come to you...' (Surah 63: Ayah 1)
So the Prophet (ﷺ) called them that they might ask Allah to forgive them, but they turned their heads aside. (Concerning Allah's saying: 'Pieces of wood propped up,' Zaid said: They were the most handsome men).
Hadith - 424
Narrated Zaid bin Arqam: While I was with my uncle, I heard `Abdullah bin Ubai bin Salul saying, "Do not spend on those who are with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), that they may disperse and go away (from him). And if we return to Medina, surely, the more honorable will expel therefrom the meaner."
I mentioned that to my uncle who, in turn, mentioned it to the Prophet (ﷺ). The Prophet (ﷺ) called me and I told him about that.
Then he sent for `Abdullah bin Ubai and his companions, and they swore that they did not say so. The Prophet (ﷺ) disbelieved my statement and believed theirs.
I was distressed as I have never been before, and I remained in my house. My uncle said to me, "You just wanted the Prophet (ﷺ) to consider you a liar and hate you."
Then Allah revealed: 'When the hypocrites come to you, they say: "We bear witness that you are indeed the Apostle of Allah"' (Surah 63: Ayah 1)
So the Prophet (ﷺ) sent for me and recited it and said, "Allah has confirmed your statement."
Hadith - 425
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah: We were in a Ghazwa (Sufyan once said: in an army) and a man from the emigrants kicked an Ansari man (on the buttocks with his foot). The Ansari man said, "O the Ansar! (Help!)" and the emigrant said, "O the emigrants! (Help!)"
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) heard that and said, "What is this call for, which is characteristic of the period of ignorance?"
They said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! A man from the emigrants kicked one of the Ansar (on the buttocks with his foot)." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Leave it (that call) as it is a detestable thing."
`Abdullah bin Ubai heard that and said, 'Have they (the emigrants) done so? By Allah, if we return to Medina, surely, the more honorable will expel therefrom the meaner."
When this statement reached the Prophet (ﷺ), `Umar got up and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Let me chop off the head of this hypocrite (`Abdullah bin Ubai)!" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Leave him, lest the people say that Muhammad kills his companions."
The Ansar were then more in number than the emigrants when the latter came to Medina, but later on the emigrants increased.
Hadith - 426
Narrated Musa bin `Uqba: `Abdullah bin Al-Fadl told me that Anas bin Malik said, "I was much grieved over those who had been killed in the Battle of Al-Harra.
When Zaid bin Arqam heard of my intense grief (over the killed Ansar), he wrote a letter to me saying that he heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "O Allah! Forgive the Ansar and the Ansar children."
The subnarrator, Ibn Al-Fadl, is not sure whether the Prophet (ﷺ) also said, "And their grand-children."
Some of those who were present, asked Anas (about Zaid). He said, "He (Zaid) is the one about whom Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, 'He is the one whose sound hearing Allah testified.'"
Hadith - 427
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah: We were in a Ghazwa and a man from the emigrants kicked an Ansari (on the buttocks with his foot). The Ansari man said, "O the Ansar! (Help!)" The emigrant said, "O the emigrants! (Help)."
When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) heard that, he said, "What is that?" They said, "A man from the emigrants kicked a man from the Ansar (on the buttocks with his foot). On that, the Ansari said, 'O the Ansar!' and the emigrant said, 'O the emigrants!'"
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Leave it (that call) for it is a detestable thing."
The number of Ansar was larger (than that of the emigrants) at the time when the Prophet (ﷺ) came to Medina, but later the number of emigrants increased.
`Abdullah bin Ubai said, "Have they (the emigrants) done so? By Allah, if we return to Medina, surely, the more honorable will expel therefrom the meaner."
`Umar bin Al-Khattab said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Let me chop off the head of this hypocrite!" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Leave him, lest the people say: Muhammad kills his companions."
Surah At-Talaq (Divorce)
Hadith - 428
Narrated Salim: That `Abdullah bin `Umar told him that he had divorced his wife while she was in her menses, so `Umar informed Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) of that.
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) became very angry at that and said, "Ibn `Umar must return her to his house and keep her as his wife till she becomes clean and then menstruates and becomes clean again, whereupon, if he wishes to divorce her, he may do so while she is still clean and before having any sexual relations with her, for that is the legally prescribed period for divorce as Allah has ordered."
Hadith - 429
Narrated Abu Salama: A man came to Ibn `Abbas while Abu Huraira was sitting with him and said, "Give me your verdict regarding a lady who delivered a baby forty days after the death of her husband."
Ibn `Abbas said, "This indicates the end of one of the two prescribed periods." I said, "For those who are pregnant, their prescribed period is until they deliver their burdens."
Abu Huraira said, "I agree with my cousin (Abu Salama)."
Then Ibn `Abbas sent his slave, Kuraib to Um Salama to ask her (regarding this matter).
She replied, "The husband of Subai'a al-Aslamiya was killed while she was pregnant, and she delivered a baby forty days after his death. Then her hand was asked in marriage and Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) married her (to somebody). Abu As-Sanabil was one of those who asked for her hand in marriage."
Hadith - 430
See hadith before this.