Surah Al-Qamar (The Moon)
Hadith - 385
Narrated Ibn Masud: During the lifetime of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) the moon was split into two parts; one part remained over the mountain, and the other part went beyond the mountain. On that, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Witness this miracle."
Hadith - 386
Narrated `Abdullah: The moon was cleft asunder while we were in the company of the Prophet (ﷺ) and it became two parts. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Witness, witness (this miracle)."
Hadith - 387
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: The moon was cleft asunder during the lifetime of the Prophet (ﷺ).
Hadith - 388
Narrated Anas: The people of Mecca asked the Prophet (ﷺ) to show them a sign (miracle). So he showed them (the miracle) of the cleaving of the moon.
Hadith - 389
Narrated Anas: The moon was cleft asunder into two parts.
Hadith - 390
Narrated `Abdullah bin Masud: The Prophet (ﷺ) used to recite: "Fahal min Muddakir (then is there any that will receive admonition?)."
Hadith - 391
Narrated `Abdullah bin Masud: The Prophet (ﷺ) used to recite: "Fahal min Muddakir (then is there any that will receive admonition?)."
Hadith - 392
Narrated Abu 'Is-haq: A man asked Al-Aswad, 'Is it "Fahal min Muddakir" or "..Mudhdhakir"?' Al-Aswad replied, 'I have heard `Abdullah bin Masud reciting it, "Fahal min Muddakir". I too, heard the Prophet (ﷺ) reciting it "Fahal min Muddakir" with "d".
Hadith - 393
Narrated `Abdullah bin Masud: The Prophet (ﷺ) used to recite: "Fahal min Muddakir (then is there any that will receive admonition?)."
Hadith - 394
Narrated `Abdullah: The Prophet (ﷺ) recited: "Fahal min Muddakir". 'And verily, We have destroyed nations like unto you; then is there any that will receive admonition?' (Surah 54: Ayah 51)
Hadith - 395
Narrated `Abdullah: I recited before the Prophet (ﷺ), "Fahal min Mudhdhakir". The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'It is "Fahal min Muddakir".'
Hadith - 396
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) while in a tent on the day of the Battle of Badr, said, "O Allah! I request you (to fulfill) Your promise and contract! O Allah! If You wish that you will not be worshipped henceforth..."
On that, Abu Bakr held the Prophet (ﷺ) by the hand and said, "That is enough, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). You have appealed to your Lord too pressingly," while the Prophet (ﷺ) was putting on his armor.
So Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) went out, reciting, "Their multitude will be put to flight, and they will show their backs." (Surah 54: Ayah 45)
Hadith - 397
Narrated Yusuf bin Maahak: I was in the house of `Aisha, the mother of the Believers. She said, 'This revelation: "Nay, but the Hour is their appointed time (for their full recompense); and the Hour will be more previous and most bitter," (Surah 54: Ayah 46) was revealed to Muhammad at Mecca while I was a playful little girl.'
Hadith - 398
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: While in his tent on the day the Battle of Badr, the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O Allah! I request You (to fulfill) Your promise and contract. O Allah! If You wish that the Believers be destroyed, You will never be worshipped henceforth."
On that, Abu Bakr held the Prophet (ﷺ) by the hand and said, "That is enough, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! You have appealed to your Lord too pressingly."
The Prophet (ﷺ) was wearing his armor and then went out reciting: 'Their multitude will be put to flight and they will show their backs. Nay, but the Hour is their appointed time (for their full recompense), and the Hour will be more previous and most bitter.' (Surah 54: Ayat 45-46)
Surah Ar-Rahman (The Most Compassionate)
Hadith - 399
Narrated `Abdullah bin Qais: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Two gardens, the utensils and the contents of which are of silver, and two other gardens, the utensils and contents of which are of gold.
And nothing will prevent the people who will be in the Garden of Eden from seeing their Lord except the curtain of Majesty over His Face."
Hadith - 400
Narrated `Abdullah bin Qais: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "In Paradise there is a pavilion made of a single hollow pearl sixty miles wide, in each corner of which there are wives who will not see those in the other corners; and the believers will visit and enjoy them.
And there are two gardens, the utensils and contents of which are made of silver; and two other gardens, the utensils and contents of which are made of so-and-so (i.e. gold), and nothing will prevent the people staying in the Garden of Eden from seeing their Lord, except the curtain of Majesty over His Face."
Surah Al-Waqi'ah (The Inevitable Event)
Hadith - 401
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "In Paradise there is a tree which is so big that a rider can travel in its shade for one hundred years without passing it; and if you wish, you can recite: 'In shade long extended.'" (Surah 56: Ayah 30)
Surah Al-Hashr (The Banishment)
Hadith - 402
Narrated Sa`id bin Jubair: I asked Ibn `Abbas about Surat Al-Tauba, and he said, "Surat Al-Tauba? It is exposure (of all the evils of the infidels and the hypocrites).
And it continued revealing (that the oft-repeated expression): '...and of them ...and of them.' till they started thinking that none would be left unmentioned therein."
I said, "What about Surat Al-Anfal?" He replied, "Surat Al-Anfal was revealed in connection with the Badr Battle." I said, "(What about) Surat Al-Hashr?" He replied, "It was revealed in connection with Bani an-Nadir."
Hadith - 403
Narrated Sa`id: I asked Ibn `Abbas about Surat Al-Hashr. He replied, "Say Surat An-Nadir."
Hadith - 404
Narrated Ibn `Umar: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) burnt and cut down the palm trees of Bani An-Nadir which were at Al-Buwaira (a place near Medina).
There upon Allah revealed: 'What you (O Muslims) cut down of the palm trees (of the enemy) or you left them standing on their stems, it was by the leave of Allah, so that He might cover with shame the rebellious.' (Surah 59: Ayah 5)
Hadith - 405
Narrated `Umar: The properties of Bani An-Nadir were among the booty that Allah gave to His Apostle, such Booty were not obtained by any expedition on the part of Muslims, neither with cavalry, nor with camelry.
So those properties were for Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) only, and he used to provide thereof the yearly expenditure for his wives, and dedicate the rest of its revenues for purchasing arms and horses as war material to be used in Allah's Cause.
Hadith - 406
Narrated Alqama: `Abdullah (bin Masud) said, "Allah curses those ladies who practice tattooing and those who get themselves tattooed, and those ladies who remove the hair from their faces and those who make artificial spaces between their teeth in order to look more beautiful, whereby they change Allah's creation."
His saying reached a lady from Bani Asad called Um Yaqub who came (to `Abdullah) and said, "I have come to know that you have cursed such-and-such (ladies)?"
He replied, "Why should I not curse these whom Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) has cursed and who are (cursed) in Allah's Book!" Um Yaqub said, "I have read the whole Qur'an, but I did not find in it what you say."
He said, "Verily, if you have read it (i.e. the Qur'an), you have found it. Didn't you read: 'And whatsoever the Apostle gives you, take it, and whatsoever he forbids you, you abstain (from it)'?" (Surah 59: Ayah 7)
She replied, "Yes, I did." He said, "Verily, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade such things." "She said, "But I see your wife doing these things?" He said, "Go and watch her."
She went and watched her but could not see anything in support of her statement. On that, he said, "If my wife was as you thought, I would not keep her in my company."
Hadith - 407
Narrated `Abdullah (bin Mas'ud): Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) has cursed the lady who uses false hair.
Hadith - 408
Narrated `Umar: I recommend that my successor should take care of and secure the rights of the early emigrants; and I also advise my successor to be kind to the Ansar who had homes (in Medina) and had adopted the Faith before the Prophet (ﷺ) migrated to them, and to accept the good from their good ones and excuse their wrong doers.
Hadith - 409
Narrated Abu Huraira: A man came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! I am suffering from fatigue and hunger." The Prophet (ﷺ) sent (somebody) to his wives (to get something), but the messenger found nothing with them.
Then Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said (to his companions), "Isn't there anybody who can entertain this man tonight so that Allah may be merciful to him?" An Ansari man got up and said, "I (will, entertain him), O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)!"
So he went to his wife and said to her, "This is the guest of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), so do not keep anything away from him." She said, "By Allah, I have nothing but the children's food."
He said, "When the children ask for their dinner, put them to bed and put out the light; we shall not take our meals tonight." She did so.
In the morning, the Ansari man went to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) who said, "Allah was pleased with (or He bestowed His Mercy) on so-and-so and his wife (because of their good deed)."
Then Allah revealed: 'But give them preference over themselves even though they were in need of that.' (Surah 59: Ayah 9)