Hadith - 1
Narrated Abu Sa`id bin Al-Mu'alla: While I was praying in the Mosque, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) called me but I did not respond to him. Later I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! I was praying." He said, "Didn't Allah say, "Give your response to Allah (by obeying Him) and to His Apostle when he calls you"? (Surah 8: Ayah 24) He then said to me, "I will teach you a Sura which is the greatest Sura in the Qur'an, before you leave the Mosque." Then he got hold of my hand, and when he intended to leave (the Mosque), I said to him, "Didn't you say to me, 'I will teach you a Sura which is the greatest Sura in the Qur'an?' He said, "Praise be to Allah, the Lord of the worlds, which is Al-Sab'a Al-Mathani (i.e. seven repeatedly recited Verses) and the Grand Qur'an which has been given to me."
Hadith - 2
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, 'When the Imam says (what means): "Not the path of those who earn Your Anger, nor the path of those who went astray" (Surah 1: Ayah 7), then you must say, "Ameen", for if one's utterance of "Ameen" coincides with that of the angels, then his past sins will be forgiven.'
Hadith - 3
Narrated Anas: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "On the Day of Resurrection, the Believers will assemble and say, 'Let us ask somebody to intercede for us with our Lord.' So they will go to Adam and say, 'You are the father of all the people, and Allah created you with His Own Hands, and ordered the angels to prostrate to you, and taught you the names of all things; so please intercede for us with your Lord, so that He may relieve us from this place of ours.' Adam will say, 'I am not fit for this (i.e. intercession for you).' Then Adam will remember his sin and feel ashamed thereof. He will say, 'Go to Noah, for he was the first Apostle, Allah sent to the inhabitants of the earth.' They will go to him and Noah will say, 'I am not fit for this undertaking.' He will remember his appeal to his Lord to do what he had no knowledge of, then he will feel ashamed thereof and will say, 'Go to the Khalil-ur-Rahman (i.e. Abraham).' They will go to him and he will say, 'I am not fit for this undertaking. Go to Moses, the slave to whom Allah spoke (directly) and gave him the Torah .' So they will go to him and he will say, 'I am not fit for this undertaking.' and he will mention (his) killing a person who was not a killer, and so he will feel ashamed thereof before his Lord, and he will say, 'Go to Jesus, Allah's Slave, His Apostle and Allah's Word and a Spirit coming from Him. Jesus will say, 'I am not fit for this undertaking, go to Muhammad the Slave of Allah whose past and future sins were forgiven by Allah.' So they will come to me and I will proceed till I will ask my Lord's Permission and I will be given permission. When I see my Lord, I will fall down in Prostration and He will let me remain in that state as long as He wishes and then I will be addressed.' (Muhammad!) Raise your head. Ask, and your request will be granted; say, and your saying will be listened to; intercede, and your intercession will be accepted.' I will raise my head and praise Allah with a saying (i.e. invocation) He will teach me, and then I will intercede. He will fix a limit for me (to intercede for) whom I will admit into Paradise. Then I will come back again to Allah, and when I see my Lord, the same thing will happen to me. And then I will intercede and Allah will fix a limit for me to intercede whom I will let into Paradise, then I will come back for the third time; and then I will come back for the fourth time, and will say, 'None remains in Hell but those whom the Qur'an has imprisoned (in Hell) and who have been destined to an eternal stay in Hell.'" (The compiler) Abu `Abdullah said: 'But those whom the Qur'an has imprisoned in Hell,' refers to the Statement of Allah: "They will dwell therein forever."
Hadith - 4
Narrated `Abdullah: I asked the Prophet, "What is the greatest sin in the Sight of Allah?" He said, "That you set up a rival unto Allah though He Alone created you." I said, "That is indeed a great sin." Then asked, "What is next?" He said, "To kill your son lest he should share your food with you." I asked, "What is next?" He said, "To commit illegal sexual intercourse with the wife of your neighbor."
Hadith - 5
Narrated Sa`id bin Zaid: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The Kam'a (i.e. a kind of edible fungus) is like the Manna (in that it is obtained without effort) and its water is a (medicine) cure for eye trouble.
Hadith - 6
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'It was said to the children of Israel, "Enter the gate (of the town), prostrate (in humility) and say: Hittatun (i.e. repentance) i.e. O Allah! Forgive our sins." But they entered by dragging themselves on their buttocks, so they did something different (from what they had been ordered to do) and said, "Hittatun," but added, "A grain in a hair."
Hadith - 7
Narrated Anas: `Abdullah bin Salam heard the news of the arrival of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (at Medina) while he was on a farm collecting its fruits. So he came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said, "I will ask you about three things which nobody knows unless he be a prophet. Firstly, what is the first portent of the Hour? What is the first meal of the people of Paradise? And what makes a baby look like its father or mother?'. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Just now Gabriel has informed me about that." `Abdullah said, "Gabriel?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Yes." `Abdullah said, "He, among the angels is the enemy of the Jews." On that the Prophet (ﷺ) recited this Holy Verse: "Whoever is an enemy to Gabriel (let him die in his fury!) for he has brought it (i.e. Qur'an) down to your heart by Allah's permission." (Surah 2: Ayah 97) Then he added, "As for the first portent of the Hour, it will be a fire that will collect the people from the East to West. And as for the first meal of the people of Paradise, it will be the caudate (i.e. extra) lobe of the fish liver. And if a man's discharge proceeded that of the woman, then the child resembles the father, and if the woman's discharge proceeded that of the man, then the child resembles the mother." On hearing that, `Abdullah said, "I testify that None has the right to be worshipped but Allah, and that you are the Messenger of Allah, O, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ); the Jews are liars, and if they should come to know that I have embraced Islam, they would accuse me of being a liar." In the meantime some Jews came (to the Prophet) and he asked them, "What is `Abdullah's status amongst you?" They replied, "He is the best amongst us, and he is our chief and the son of our chief." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "What would you think if `Abdullah bin Salam embraced Islam?" They replied, "May Allah protect him from this!" Then `Abdullah came out and said, "I testify that None has the right to be worshipped but Allah and that Muhammad is the Messenger of Allah." The Jews then said, "Abdullah is the worst of us and the son of the worst of us," and disparaged him. On that, `Abdullah said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! This is what I was afraid of."
Hadith - 8
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: `Umar said, "Our best Qur'an reciter is Ubai and our best judge is `Ali; and in spite of this, we leave some of the statements of Ubai because Ubai says, 'I do not leave anything that I have heard from Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) while Allah: "Whatever verse (Revelations) do We abrogate or cause to be forgotten but We bring a better one or similar to it.
Hadith - 9
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Allah said, 'The son of Adam tells a lie against me though he has no right to do so, and he abuses Me though he has no right to do so. As for his telling a lie against Me, it is that he claims that I cannot recreate him as I created him before; and as for his abusing Me, it is his statement that I have offspring. No! Glorified be Me! I am far from taking a wife or offspring.
Hadith - 10
Narrated Anas: `Umar said, "I agreed with Allah in three things," or said, "My Lord agreed with me in three things. I said, 'O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Would that you took the station of Abraham as a place of prayer.' I also said, 'O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Good and bad persons visit you! Would that you ordered the Mothers of the believers to cover themselves with veils.' So the Divine Verses of Al-Hijab (i.e. veiling of the women) were revealed. I came to know that the Prophet (ﷺ) had blamed some of his wives so I entered upon them and said, 'You should either stop (troubling the Prophet (ﷺ) ) or else Allah will give His Apostle better wives than you.' When I came to one of his wives, she said to me, 'O `Umar! Does Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) haven't what he could advise his wives with, that you try to advise them?'" Thereupon Allah revealed: "It may be, if he divorced you (all) his Lord will give him instead of you, wives better than you Muslims (who submit to Allah)."
Hadith - 11
Narrated `Aisha: (The wife of the Prophet) Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Don't you see that when your people built the Ka`ba, they did not build it on all Abraham's foundations?" I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Why don't you rebuild it on Abraham's foundations?" He said, "Were your people not so close to (the period of Heathenism, i.e. the Period between their being Muslims and being infidels), I would do so." The sub-narrator, `Abdullah bin `Umar said, "Aisha had surely heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying that, for I do not think that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) left touching the two corners of the Ka`ba facing Al-Hijr except because the Ka`ba was not built on all Abraham's foundations.
Hadith - 12
Narrated Abu Huraira: The people of the Scripture (Jews) used to recite the Torah in Hebrew and they used to explain it in Arabic to the Muslims. On that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Do not believe the people of the Scripture or disbelieve them, but say: "We believe in Allah and what is revealed to us." (Surah 2: Ayah 136)
Hadith - 13
Narrated Al-Bara: The Prophet (ﷺ) prayed facing Bait-ul-Maqdis (i.e. Jerusalem) for sixteen or seventeen months but he wished that his Qibla would be the Ka`ba (at Mecca). So Allah Revealed (Surah 2: Ayah 144) and he offered `Asr prayers(in his Mosque facing Ka`ba at Mecca) and some people prayed with him. A man from among those who had prayed with him, went out and passed by some people offering prayer in another mosque, and they were in the state of bowing. He said, "I, (swearing by Allah,) testify that I have prayed with the Prophet (ﷺ) facing Mecca." Hearing that, they turned their faces to the Ka`ba while they were still bowing. Some men had died before the Qibla was changed towards the Ka`ba. They had been killed and we did not know what to say about them (i.e. whether their prayers towards Jerusalem were accepted or not). So Allah revealed: "And Allah would never make your faith (i.e. prayer) to be lost (i.e. your prayers offered (towards Jerusalem). Truly Allah is Full of Pity, Most Merciful towards mankind." (Surah 2: Ayah 143)
Hadith - 14
Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, 'Noah will be called on the Day of Resurrection and he will say, "Labbaik and Sa`daik, O my Lord!" Allah will say, "Did you convey the Message?" Noah will say, "Yes." His nation will then be asked, "Did he convey the Message to you?" They will say, "No Warner came to us." Then Allah will say (to Noah), "Who will bear witness in your favor?" He will say, "Muhammad and his followers." So they (i.e. Muslims) will testify that he conveyed the Message. And the Apostle (Muhammad) will be a witness over yourselves, and that is what is meant by the Statement of Allah, "Thus We have made of you a just and the best nation that you may be witnesses over mankind and the Apostle (Muhammad) will be a witness over yourselves."(Surah 2: Ayah 143)'
Hadith - 15
Narrated Ibn `Umar: While some people were offering Fajr prayer in the Quba' mosque, some-one came and said, "Allah has revealed to the Prophet (ﷺ) Qur'anic instructions that you should face the Ka`ba (while praying) so you too, should face it." Those people then turned towards the Ka`ba.
Hadith - 16
Narrated Anas: None remains of those who prayed facing both Qiblas (that is, Jerusalem and Mecca) except myself.
Hadith - 17
Narrated Ibn `Umar: While some people were offering morning prayer at Quba' a man came to them and said, "A Qur'anic Order has been revealed to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) tonight that he should face the Ka`ba at Mecca (in prayer), so you too should turn your faces towards it." At that moment their faces were towards Sham (i.e. Jerusalem) (and on hearing that) they turned towards the Ka`ba (at Mecca).
Hadith - 18
Narrated Ibn `Umar: While some people were offering Fajr prayer at Quba' (mosque), some-one came to them and said, "Tonight some Qur'anic Verses have been revealed to the Prophet (ﷺ) and he has been ordered to face the Ka`ba (at Mecca) (during prayers), so you too should turn your faces towards it." At that time their faces were towards Sham (Jerusalem) so they turned towards the Ka`ba (at Mecca).
Hadith - 19
Narrated Al-Bara: We prayed along with the Prophet (ﷺ) facing Jerusalem for sixteen or seventeen months. Then Allah ordered him to turn his face towards the Qibla (in Mecca): "And from whence-so-ever you start forth (for prayers) turn your face in the direction of (the Sacred Mosque of Mecca) Al-Masjid-ul-Haram." (Surah 2: Ayah 149)
Hadith - 20
Narrated Ibn `Umar: While some people were at Quba (offering) morning prayer, a man came to them and said, "Last night Qur'anic Verses have been revealed whereby the Prophet (ﷺ) has been ordered to face the Ka`ba (at Mecca), so you too should face it." So they, keeping their postures, turned towards the Ka`ba. Formerly the people were facing Sham (Jerusalem) (Allah said): "And from whence-so-ever you start forth (for prayers), turn your face in the direction of the Sacred Mosque of Mecca (Al-Masjid-ul-Haram), and whence-so-ever you are, turn your face towards it (when you pray)." (Surah 2: Ayah 150)
Hadith - 21
Narrated Ibn `Umar: While some people were offering Fajr prayer at Quba mosque, someone came to them and said, "Qur'anic literature" has been revealed to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) tonight, and he has been ordered to face the Ka`ba (of Mecca) so you too, should turn your faces towards it. Their faces were then towards Sham (Jerusalem), so they turned towards the Qibla (i.e. Ka`ba of Mecca).
Hadith - 22
Narrated `Urwa: I said to `Aisha, the wife of the Prophet, and I was at that time a young boy, "How do you interpret the Statement of Allah: "Verily, Safa and Marwa (i.e. two mountains at Mecca) are among the Symbols of Allah." So it is not harmful of those who perform the Hajj to the House of Allah) or perform the Umra, to ambulate (Tawaf) between them. In my opinion it is not sinful for one not to ambulate (Tawaf) between them." `Aisha said, "Your interpretation is wrong for as you say, the Verse should have been: "So it is not harmful of those who perform the Hajj or Umra to the House, not to ambulate (Tawaf) between them.' This Verse was revealed in connection with the Ansar who (during the Pre-Islamic Period) used to visit Manat (i.e. an idol) after assuming their Ihram, and it was situated near Qudaid (i.e. a place at Mecca), and they used to regard it sinful to ambulate between Safa and Marwa after embracing Islam. When Islam came, they asked Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) about it, whereupon Allah revealed: "Verily, Safa and Marwa (i.e. two mountains at Mecca) are among the Symbols of Allah. So it is not harmful of those who perform the Hajj of the House (of Allah) or perform the Umra, to ambulate (Tawaf) between them." (Surah 2: Ayah 158)
Hadith - 23
Narrated `Asim bin Sulaiman: I asked Anas bin Malik about Safa and Marwa. Anas replied, "We used to consider (i.e. going around) them a custom of the Pre-Islamic period of Ignorance, so when Islam came, we gave up going around them. Then Allah revealed" "Verily, Safa and Marwa (i.e. two mountains at Mecca) are among the Symbols of Allah. So it is not harmful of those who perform the Hajj of the House (of Allah) or perform the Umra to ambulate (Tawaf) between them.
Hadith - 24
Narrated `Abdullah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said one statement and I said another. The Prophet (ﷺ) said "Whoever dies while still invoking anything other than Allah as a rival to Allah, will enter Hell (Fire)." And I said, "Whoever dies without invoking anything as a rival to Allah, will enter Paradise.
Hadith - 25
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: The law of Qisas (i.e. equality in punishment) was prescribed for the children of Israel, but the Diya (i.e. blood money was not ordained for them). So Allah said to this Nation (i.e. Muslims): "O you who believe! The law of Al-Qisas (i.e. equality in punishment) is prescribed for you in cases of murder: The free for the free, the slave for the slave, and the female for the female. But if the relatives (or one of them) of the killed (person) forgive their brother (i.e. the killers) something of Qisas (i.e. not to kill the killer by accepting blood money in the case of intentional murder) - then the relatives (of the killed person) should demand blood-money in a reasonable manner and the killer must pay with handsome gratitude. This is an alleviation and a Mercy from your Lord, (in comparison to what was prescribed for the nations before you). So after this, whoever transgresses the limits (i.e. to kill the killer after taking the blood-money) shall have a painful torment.
Hadith - 26
Narrated Anas: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The prescribed Law of Allah is the equality in punishment (i.e. Al-Qisas)" (In cases of murders, etc).
Hadith - 27
Narrated Anas: That his aunt, Ar-Rubai' broke an incisor tooth of a girl. My aunt's family requested the girl's relatives for forgiveness but they refused; then they proposed a compensation, but they refused. Then they went to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and refused everything except Al-Qisas (i.e. equality in punishment). So Allah's Apostle passed the judgment of Al-Qisas (i.e. equality of punishment). Anas bin Al-Nadr said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Will the incisor tooth of Ar-Rubai be broken? No, by Him Who sent you with the Truth, her incisor tooth will not be broken." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "O Anas! The prescribed law of Allah is equality in punishment (i.e. Al-Qisas.)" Thereupon those people became satisfied and forgave her. Then Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Among Allah's Worshippers there are some who, if they took Allah's Oath (for something), Allah fulfill their oaths.
Hadith - 28
Narrated Ibn `Umar: Fasting was observed on the day of 'Ashura' (i.e. 10th of Muharram) by the people of the Pre-Islamic Period. But when (the order of compulsory fasting) in the month of Ramadan was revealed, the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "It is up to one to fast on it (i.e. day of 'Ashura') or not."
Hadith - 29
Narrated `Aisha: The people used to fast on the day of 'Ashura' before fasting in Ramadan was prescribed but when (the order of compulsory fasting in) Ramadan was revealed, it was up to one to fast on it (i.e. 'Ashura') or not.
Hadith - 30
Narrated `Abdullah: That Al-Ash'ath entered upon him while he was eating. Al-Ash'ath said, "Today is 'Ashura." I said (to him), "Fasting had been observed (on such a day) before (the order of compulsory fasting in) Ramadan was revealed. But when (the order of fasting in) Ramadan was revealed, fasting (on 'Ashura') was given up, so come and eat.
Hadith - 31
Narrated Aisha: During the Pre-Islamic Period of ignorance the Quraish used to observe fasting on the day of 'Ashura', and the Prophet (ﷺ) himself used to observe fasting on it too. But when he came to Medina, he fasted on that day and ordered the Muslims to fast on it. When (the order of compulsory fasting in ) Ramadan was revealed, fasting in Ramadan became an obligation, and fasting on 'Ashura' was given up, and who ever wished to fast (on it) did so, and whoever did not wish to fast on it, did not fast.
Hadith - 32
Narrated 'Ata: That he heard Ibn `Abbas reciting the Divine Verse: "And for those who can fast they had a choice either fast, or feed a poor for every day..." (Surah 2: Ayah 184). Ibn `Abbas said, "This Verse is not abrogated, but it is meant for old men and old women who have no strength to fast, so they should feed one poor person for each day of fasting (instead of fasting)."
Hadith - 33
Narrated Nafi`: Ibn `Umar recited: "They had a choice, either fast or feed a poor for every day..." and added, "This Verse is abrogated."
Hadith - 34
Narrated Salama: When the Divine Revelation: "For those who can fast, they had a choice either fast, or feed a poor for every day," (Surah 2: Ayah 184) was revealed, it was permissible for one to give a ransom and give up fasting, till the Verse succeeding it was revealed and abrogated it.
Hadith - 35
Narrated Al-Bara': When the order of compulsory fasting of Ramadan was revealed, the people did not have sexual relations with their wives for the whole month of Ramadan, but some men cheated themselves (by violating that restriction). So Allah revealed: "Allah is aware that you were deceiving yourselves but He accepted your repentance and forgave you.
Hadith - 36
Narrated Ash-Shu`bi: `Adi took a white rope (or thread) and a black one, and when some part of the night had passed, he looked at them but he could not distinguish one from the other. The next morning he said, "O Allah's Apostle! I put (a white thread and a black thread) underneath my pillow." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Then your pillow is too wide if the white thread (of dawn) and the black thread (of the night) are underneath your pillow.
Hadith - 37
Narrated `Adi bin Hatim: I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! What is the meaning of the white thread distinct from the black thread? Are these two threads?" He said, "You are not intelligent if you watch the two threads." He then added, "No, it is the darkness of the night and the whiteness of the day.
Hadith - 38
Narrated Sahl bin Sa`d The Verse "And eat and drink until the white thread appears to you distinct: from the black thread." was revealed, but: '... of dawn' was not revealed (along with it) so some men, when intending to fast, used to tie their legs, one with white thread and the other with black thread and would keep on eating till they could distinguish one thread from the other. Then Allah revealed' ... of dawn,' whereupon they understood that meant the night and the day.
Hadith - 39
Narrated Al-Bara: In the Pre-Islamic Period when the people assumed Ihram, they would enter their houses from the back. So Allah revealed: "And it is not righteousness that you enter houses from the back, but the righteous man is he who fears Allah, obeys His Orders and keeps away from what He has forbidden. So enter houses through their doors." (Surah 2: Ayah 189)
Hadith - 40
Narrated Nafi`: During the affliction of Ibn Az-Zubair, two men came to Ibn `Umar and said, "The people are lost, and you are the son of `Umar, and the companion of the Prophet, so what forbids you from coming out?" He said, "What forbids me is that Allah has prohibited the shedding of my brother's blood." They both said, "Didn't Allah say, 'And fight then until there is no more affliction?" He said "We fought until there was no more affliction and the worship is for Allah (Alone while you want to fight until there is affliction and until the worship become for other than Allah." Narrated Nafi` (through another group of sub-narrators): A man came to Ibn `Umar and said, "O Abu `Abdur Rahman! What made you perform Hajj in one year and Umra in another year and leave the Jihad for Allah' Cause though you know how much Allah recommends it?" Ibn `Umar replied, "O son of my brother! Islam is founded on five principles, i.e. believe in Allah and His Apostle, the five compulsory prayers, the fasting of the month of Ramadan, the payment of Zakat, and the Hajj to the House (of Allah)." The man said, "O Abu `Abdur Rahman! Won't you listen to why Allah has mentioned in His Book: 'If two groups of believers fight each other, then make peace between them, but if one of then transgresses beyond bounds against the other, then you all fight against the one that transgresses. (Surah 49: Ayah 9) and: "And fight them till there is no more affliction (i.e. no more worshiping of others along with Allah)." Ibn `Umar said, "We did it, during the lifetime of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) when Islam had only a few followers. A man would be put to trial because of his religion; he would either be killed or tortured. But when the Muslims increased, there was no more afflictions or oppressions." The man said, "What is your opinion about `Uthman and `Ali?" Ibn `Umar said, "As for `Uthman, it seems that Allah has forgiven him, but you people dislike that he should be forgiven. And as for `Ali, he is the cousin of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and his son-in-law." Then he pointed with his hand and said, "That is his house which you see."
Hadith - 41
Narrated Abu Wa'il: Hudhaifa said, "The Verse: "And spend (of your wealth) in the Cause of Allah and do not throw yourselves in destruction," (Surah 2: Ayah 195) was revealed concerning spending in Allah's Cause (i.e. Jihad).
Hadith - 42
Narrated `Abdullah bin Ma'qil: I sat with Ka`b bin Ujra in this mosque, i.e. Kufa Mosque, and asked him about the meaning of: "Pay a ransom (i.e. Fidya) of either fasting or ... (Surah 2: Ayah 196)" He said, "I was taken to the Prophet (ﷺ) while lice were falling on my face. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'I did not think that your trouble reached to such an extent. Can you afford to slaughter a sheep (as a ransom for shaving your head)?' I said, 'No.' He said, 'Then fast for three days, or feed six poor persons by giving half a Sa of food for each and shave your head.' So the above Verse was revealed especially for me and generally for all of you.
Hadith - 43
Narrated `Imran bin Husain: The Verse of Hajj-at-Tamattu was revealed in Allah's Book, so we performed it with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), and nothing was revealed in Qur'an to make it illegal, nor did the Prophet (ﷺ) prohibit it till he died. But the man (who regarded it illegal) just expressed what his own mind suggested.
Hadith - 44
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: `Ukaz, Mijanna and Dhul-Majaz were markets during the Pre-Islamic Period. They (i.e. Muslims) considered it a sin to trade there during the Hajj time (i.e. season), so this Verse was revealed: "There is no harm for you if you seek of the Bounty of your Lord during the Hajj season." (Surah 2: Ayah 198)
Hadith - 45
Narrated `Aisha: The Quraish people and those who embraced their religion, used to stay at Muzdalifa and used to call themselves Al-Hums, while the rest of the Arabs used to stay at `Arafat. When Islam came, Allah ordered His Prophet to go to `Arafat and stay at it, and then pass on from there, and that is what is meant by the Statement of Allah: "Then depart from the place whence all the people depart." (Surah 2: Ayah 199)
Hadith - 46
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: A man who wants to perform the Hajj (from Mecca) can perform the Tawaf around the Ka`ba as long as he is not in the state of Ihram till he assumes the Ihram for Hajj. Then, if he rides and proceeds to `Arafat, he should take a Hadi (i.e. animal for sacrifice), either a camel or a cow or a sheep, whatever he can afford; but if he cannot afford it, he should fast for three days during the Hajj before the day of `Arafat, but if the third day of his fasting happens to be the day of `Arafat (i.e. 9th of Dhul-Hijja) then it is no sin for him (to fast on it). Then he should proceed to `Arafat and stay there from the time of the `Asr prayer till darkness falls. Then the pilgrims should proceed from `Arafat, and when they have departed from it, they reach Jam' (i.e. Al-Muzdalifa) where they ask Allah to help them to be righteous and dutiful to Him, and there they remember Allah greatly or say Takbir (i.e. Allah is Greater) and Tahlil (i.e. None has the right to be worshipped but Allah) repeatedly before dawn breaks. Then, after offering the morning (Fajr) prayer you should pass on (to Mina) for the people used to do so and Allah said: "Then depart from the place whence all the people depart. And ask for Allah's Forgiveness. Truly! Allah is Oft-Forgiving, Most Merciful." (Surah 2: Ayah 199) Then you should go on doing so till you throw pebbles over the Jamra.
Hadith - 47
Narrated Anas: The Prophet (ﷺ) used to say, "O Allah! Our Lord! Give us in this world that, which is good and in the Hereafter that, which is good and save us from the torment of the Fire." (Surah 2: Ayah 201)
Hadith - 48
Narrated `Aisha: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The most hated man in the Sight of Allah is the one who is the most quarrelsome."
Hadith - 49
Narrated Ibn Abu Mulaika: Ibn `Abbas recited: "(Respite will be granted) until when the Apostles gave up hope (of their people) and thought that they were denied (by their people), there came to them Our Help..." (Surah 12: Ayah 110) reading Kudhibu without doubling the sound 'dh', and that was what he understood of the Verse. Then he went on reciting: "..even the Apostle and those who believed along with him said: When (will come) Allah's Help? Yes, verily, Allah's Help is near" (Surah 2: Ayah 214). Then I met `Urwa bin Az-Zubair and I mentioned that to him. He said, "Aisha said, 'Allah forbid! By Allah, Allah never promised His Apostle anything but he knew that it would certainly happen before he died. But trials were continuously presented before the Apostles till they were afraid that their followers would accuse them of telling lies. So I used to recite: "Till they (come to) think that they were treated as liars," reading 'Kudh-dhibu' with double 'dh'.
Hadith - 50
Narrated Nafi`: Whenever Ibn `Umar recited the Qur'an, he would not speak to anyone till he had finished his recitation. Once I held the Qur'an and he recited Surat-al-Baqara from his memory and then stopped at a certain Verse and said, "Do you know in what connection this Verse was revealed? " I replied, "No." He said, "It was revealed in such-and-such connection." Ibn `Umar then resumed his recitation. Nafi` added regarding the Verse: "So go to your tilth when or how you will," Ibn `Umar said, "It means one should approach his wife in."
Hadith - 51
Narrated Jabir: Jews used to say: "If one has sexual intercourse with his wife from the back, then she will deliver a squint-eyed child." So this Verse was revealed: "Your wives are a tilth unto you; so go to your tilth when or how you will." (Surah 2: Ayah 223)
Hadith - 52
Narrated Al-Hasan: The sister of Ma'qil bin Yasar was divorced by her husband who left her till she had fulfilled her term of Iddat (i.e. the period which should elapse before she can Remarry) and then he wanted to remarry her but Ma'qil refused, so this Verse was revealed: "Do not prevent them from marrying their (former) husbands." (Surah 2: Ayah 232)
Hadith - 53
Narrated Ibn Az-Zubair: I said to `Uthman bin `Affan (while he was collecting the Qur'an) regarding the Verse: "Those of you who die and leave wives..." (Surah 2: Ayah 240) "This Verse was abrogated by an other Verse. So why should you write it? (Or leave it in the Qur'an)?" `Uthman said, "O son of my brother! I will not shift anything of it from its place."
Hadith - 54
Narrated Mujahid: (Regarding the Verse): "Those of you who die and leave wives behind. They - (their wives) - shall wait (as regards their marriage ) for four months and ten days)." (Surah 2: Ayah 234) The widow, according to this Verse, was to spend this period of waiting with her husband's family, so Allah revealed: "Those of you who die and leave wives (i.e. widows) should bequeath for their wives, a year's maintenance and residences without turning them out, but if they leave (their residence), there is no blame on you for what they do with themselves provided it is honorable.' (i.e. lawful marriage) (Surah 2: Ayah 240). So Allah entitled the widow to be bequeathed extra maintenance for seven months and twenty nights, and that is the completion of one year. If she wished she could stay (in her husband's home) according to the will, and she could leave it if she wished, as Allah says: "...without turning them out, but if they leave (the residence), there is no blame on you." So the 'Idda (i.e. four months and ten days as it) is obligatory for her. 'Ata said: Ibn `Abbas said, "This Verse, i.e. the Statement of Allah: "..without turning them out.." cancelled the obligation of staying for the waiting period in her dead husband's house, and she can complete this period wherever she likes." 'Ata said: If she wished, she could complete her 'Idda by staying in her dead husband's residence according to the will or leave it according to Allah's Statement: "There is no blame on you for what they do with themselves." `Ata' added: Later the regulations of inheritance came and abrogated the order of the dwelling of the widow (in her dead husband's house), so she could complete the 'Idda wherever she likes. And it was no longer necessary to provide her with a residence. Ibn `Abbas said, "This Verse abrogated her (i.e. widow's) dwelling in her dead husband's house and she could complete the 'Idda (i.e. four months and ten days) wherever she liked, as Allah's Statement says: "...without turning them out."
Hadith - 55
Narrated Muhammad bin Seereen: I sat in a gathering in which the chiefs of the Ansar were present, and `Abdur-Rahman bin Abu Laila was amongst them. I mentioned the narration of `Abdullah bin `Utba regarding the question of Subai'a bint Al-Harith. `Abdur-Rahman said, "But `Abdullah's uncle used not to say so." I said, "I am too brave if I tell a lie concerning a person who is now in Al-Kufa," and I raised my voice. Then I went out and met Malik bin 'Amir or Malik bin `Auf, and said, "What was the verdict of Ibn Mas`ud about the pregnant widow whose husband had died?" He replied, "Ibn Mas`ud said, 'Why do you impose on her the hard order and don't let her make use of the leave? The shorter Sura of women (i.e. Surat-at-Talaq) was revealed after the longer Sura (i.e. Surat-al-Baqara)." (i.e. Her 'Idda is up till she delivers).
Hadith - 56
Narrated `Ali (through two chains): On the day of Al-Khandaq (the battle of the Trench). the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "They (i.e. pagans) prevented us from offering the middle (the Best) Prayer till the sun had set. May Allah fill their graves, their houses (or their bodies) with fire."
Hadith - 57
Narrated Zaid bin Arqam: We used to speak while in prayer. One of us used to speak to his brother (while in prayer) about his need, till the Verse was revealed: "Guard strictly the (five obligatory) prayers, especially the middle (the Best) (`Asr) Prayer and stand before Allah with obedience (and not to speak to others during the prayers)." Then we were ordered not to speak in the prayers.
Hadith - 58
Narrated Nafi`: Whenever `Abdullah bin `Umar was asked about Salat-al-Khauf (i.e. prayer of fear) he said, "The Imam comes forward with a group of people and leads them in a one rak`a prayer while another group from them who has not prayed yet, stay between the praying group and the enemy. When those who are with the Imam have finished their one rak`a, they retreat and take the positions of those who have not prayed but they will not finish their prayers with Taslim. Those who have not prayed, come forward to offer a rak`a with the Imam (while the first group covers them from the enemy). Then the Imam, having offered two rak`at, finishes his prayer. Then each member of the two groups offer the second rak`a alone after the Imam has finished his prayer. Thus each one of the two groups will have offered two rak`at. But if the fear is too great, they can pray standing on their feet or riding on their mounts, facing the Qibla or not." Nafi` added: I do not think that `Abdullah bin `Umar narrated this except from Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (See Hadith No. 451, Vol 5 to know exactly "The Fear Prayer").
Hadith - 59
Narrated Ibn Az-Zubair: I said to `Uthman, "This Verse which is in Surat-al-Baqara: "Those of you who die and leave widows behind...without turning them out," has been abrogated by another Verse. Why then do you write it (in the Qur'an)?" `Uthman said, "Leave it (where it is), O the son of my brother, for I will not shift anything of it (i.e. the Qur'an) from its original position."
Hadith - 60
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "We have more right to be in doubt than Abraham when he said, 'My Lord! Show me how You give life to the dead.' He said, 'Do you not believe?' He said, 'Yes (I believe) but to be stronger in Faith.
Hadith - 61
Narrated Ubaid bin Umair: Once `Umar (bin Al-Khattab) said to the companions of the Prophet (ﷺ) "What do you think about this Verse: "Does any of you wish that he should have a garden?" They replied, "Allah knows best." `Umar became angry and said, "Either say that you know or say that you do not know!" On that, Ibn `Abbas said, "O chief of the believers! I have something in my mind to say about it." `Umar said, "O son of my brother! Say, and do not under estimate yourself." Ibn `Abbas said, "This Verse has been set up as an example for deeds." `Umar said, "What kind of deeds?" Ibn `Abbas said, "For deeds." `Umar said, "This is an example for a rich man who does goods out of obedience of Allah and then Allah sends him Satan whereupon he commits sins till all his good deeds are lost."
Hadith - 62
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The poor person is not the one for whom a date or two or a morsel or two (of food) is sufficient but the poor person is he who does not (beg or) ask the people (for something) or show his poverty at all. Recite if you wish, (Allah's Statement): "They do not beg of people at all.
Hadith - 63
Narrated `Aisha: When the Verses of Surat-al-Baqara regarding usury (i.e. Riba) were revealed, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) recited them before the people and then he prohibited the trade of alcoholic liquors.
Hadith - 64
Narrated `Aisha: When the last Verses of Surat-al-Baqara were revealed. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) went out and recited them in the Mosque and prohibited the trade of alcoholic liquors.
Hadith - 65
Narrated `Aisha: When the last Verses of Surat-al-Baqara were revealed, the Prophet (ﷺ) read them in the Mosque and prohibited the trade of alcoholic liquors.
Hadith - 66
Narrated `Aisha: When the last Verses of Surat-al-Baqara were revealed, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) stood up and recited them before us and then prohibited the trade of alcoholic liquors.
Hadith - 67
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: The last Verse (in the Qur'an) revealed to the Prophet (ﷺ) was the Verse dealing with usury (i.e. Riba).
Hadith - 68
Narrated Ibn `Umar: This Verse: "Whether you show what is in your minds or conceal it..." (Surah 2: Ayah 284) was abrogated.
Hadith - 69
Narrated Marwan Al-Asfar: A man from the companions of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) who I think, was Ibn `Umar said, "The Verse: 'Whether you show what is in your minds or conceal it...' was abrogated by the Verse following it."