Hadith - 70
Narrated `Aisha: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) recited the Verse: "It is He who has sent down to you the Book. In it are Verses that are entirely clear, they are the foundation of the Book, others not entirely clear.
So as for those in whose hearts there is a deviation (from the Truth) follow thereof that is not entirely clear, seeking affliction and searching for its hidden meanings; but no one knows its hidden meanings but Allah.
And those who are firmly grounded in knowledge say: "We believe in it (i.e. in the Qur'an) the whole of it (i.e. its clear and unclear Verses) are from our Lord. And none receive admonition except men of understanding." (Surah 3: Ayah 7)
Then Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If you see those who follow thereof that is not entirely clear, then they are those whom Allah has named [as having deviation (from the Truth)]. So beware of them."
Hadith - 71
Narrated Sa`id bin Al-Musaiyab: Abu Huraira said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'No child is born but that Satan touches it when it is born, whereupon it starts crying loudly because of being touched by Satan, except Mary and her son.'"
Abu Huraira then said, 'Recite, if you wish: "And I seek Refuge with You (Allah) for her and her offspring from Satan, the outcast."' (Surah 3: Ayah 36)
Hadith - 72
Narrated Abu Wa'il: `Abdullah bin Mas`ud said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, 'Whoever takes an oath when asked to do so, in which he may deprive a Muslim of his property unlawfully, will meet Allah Who will be angry with him.'
So Allah revealed in confirmation of this statement: "Verily! Those who Purchase a small gain at the cost of Allah's Covenant and oaths, they shall have no portion in the Hereafter..." (Surah 3: Ayah 77)'
Then entered Al-Ash'ath bin Qais and said, "What is Abu `Abdur-Rahman narrating to you?" We replied, "So-and-so."
Al-Ash'ath said, "This Verse was revealed in my connection. I had a well in the land of my cousin (and he denied my possessing it). On that, the Prophet (ﷺ) said to me, 'Either you bring forward a proof or he (i.e. your cousin) takes an oath (to confirm his claim).'
I said, 'I am sure he would take a (false) oath, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ).' He said, 'If somebody takes an oath when asked to do so through which he may deprive a Muslim of his property (unlawfully) and he is a liar in his oath, he will meet Allah Who will be angry with him.'"
Hadith - 73
Narrated `Abdullah bin Abu `Aufa: A man displayed some merchandise in the market and took an oath that he had been offered a certain price for it while in fact he had not, in order to cheat a man from the Muslims.
So then was revealed: "Verily! Those who purchase a small gain at the cost of Allah's Covenant and their oaths." (Surah 3: Ayah 77)
Hadith - 74
Narrated Ibn Abu Mulaika: Two women were stitching shoes in a house or a room. Then one of them came out with an awl driven into her hand, and she sued the other for it. The case was brought before Ibn `Abbas.
Ibn `Abbas said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, 'If people were to be given what they claim (without proving their claim) the life and property of the nation would be lost.'
Will you remind her (i.e. the defendant) of Allah and recite before her: "Verily! Those who purchase a small gain at the cost of Allah's Covenant and their oaths..." (Surah 3: Ayah 77)?"
So they reminded her and she confessed. Ibn `Abbas then said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'The oath is to be taken by the defendant (in the absence of any proof against him).'"
Hadith - 75
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: Abu Sufyan narrated to me personally, saying, "I set out during the Truce that had been concluded between me and Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). While I was in Sham, a letter sent by the Prophet (ﷺ) was brought to Heraclius.
Dihya Al-Kalbi had brought and given it to the governor of Busra, and the latter forwarded it to Heraclius.
Heraclius said, 'Is there anyone from the people of this man who claims to be a prophet?' The people replied, 'Yes.' So I, along with some of Quraishi, men were called and we entered upon Heraclius, and we were seated in front of him.
Then he said, 'Who amongst you is the nearest relative to the man who claims to be a prophet?' So they made me sit in front of him and made my companions sit behind me.
Then he called upon his translator and said (to him), 'Tell them (i.e. Abu Sufyan's companions) that I am going to ask him (i.e. Abu Sufyan) regarding that man who claims to be a prophet. So, if he tell me a lie, they should contradict him (instantly).'
By Allah, had I not been afraid that my companions would consider me a liar, I would have told lies.
Heraclius then said to his translator, 'Ask him: What is his (i.e. the Prophet's) family status amongst you?' I said, 'He belongs to a noble family amongst us.'
Heraclius said, 'Was any of his ancestors a king?' I said, 'No.'
He said, 'Did you ever accuse him of telling lies before his saying what he has said?' I said, 'No.'
He said, 'Do the nobles follow him or the poor people?' I said, 'It is the poor who followed him.'
He said, 'Is the number of his followers increasing or decreasing?' I said, 'They are increasing.'
He said, 'Does anyone renounce his religion (i.e. Islam) after embracing it, being displeased with it?' I said, 'No.'
He said, 'Did you fight with him?' I replied, 'Yes.' He said, 'How was your fighting with him?' I said, 'The fighting between us was undecided and victory was shared by him and us by turns. He inflicts casualties upon us and we inflict casualties upon him.'
He said, 'Did he ever betray?' I said, 'No, but now we are away from him in this truce and we do not know what he will do in it.'"
Abu Sufyan added, "By Allah, I was not able to insert in my speech a word (against him) except that.
Heraclius said, 'Did anybody else (amongst you) ever claim the same (i.e. Islam) before him?' I said, 'No.'
Then Heraclius told his translator to tell me (i.e. Abu Sufyan), 'I asked you about his family status amongst you, and you told me that he comes from a noble family amongst you. Verily, all Apostles come from the noblest family among their people.
Then I asked you whether any of his ancestors was a king, and you denied that. Thereupon I thought that had one of his fore-fathers been a king, I would have said that he (i.e. Muhammad) was seeking to rule the kingdom of his fore-fathers.
Then I asked you regarding his followers, whether they were the noble or the poor among the people, and you said that they were only the poor (who follow him). In fact, such are the followers of the Apostles.
Then I asked you whether you have ever accused him of telling lies before saying what he said, and your reply was in the negative. Therefore, I took for granted that a man who did not tell a lie about others could ever tell a lie about Allah.
Then I asked you whether anyone of his followers had renounced his religion (i.e. Islam) after embracing it, being displeased with it, and you denied that. And such is Faith when it mixes with the cheerfulness of the hearts.
Then I asked you whether his followers were increasing or decreasing. You claimed that they were increasing. That is the way of true faith till it is complete.
Then I asked you whether you had ever fought with him, and you claimed that you had fought with him and the battle between you and him was undecided and the victory was shared by you and him in turns; he inflicted casualties upon you and you inflicted casualties upon them.
Such is the case with the Apostles; they are put to test and the final victory is for them.
Then I asked you whether he had ever betrayed; you claimed that he had never betrayed. Indeed, Apostles never betray.
Then I asked you whether anyone had said this statement before him; and you denied that. Thereupon I thought if somebody had said that statement before him, then I would have said that he was but a man copying some sayings said before him.'"
Abu Sufyan said, "Heraclius then asked me, 'What does he order you to do?' I said, 'He orders us (to offer) prayers and (to pay) Zakat and to keep good relationship with the Kith and kin and to be chaste.'
Then Heraclius said, 'If whatever you have said is true, he is really a prophet, and I knew that he (i.e. the Prophet (ﷺ)) was going to appear, but I never thought that he would be from amongst you.
If I were certain that I can reach him, I would like to meet him and if I were with him, I would wash his feet; and his kingdom will expand (surely to what is under my feet).'
Then Heraclius asked for the letter of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and read it wherein was written: "In the Name of Allah, the Most Beneficent, the Most Merciful. This letter is from Muhammad, Apostle of Allah, to Heraclius, the sovereign of Byzantine...
Peace be upon him who follows the Right Path. Now then, I call you to embrace Islam.
Embrace Islam and you will be saved (from Allah's Punishment); embrace Islam, and Allah will give you a double reward, but if you reject this, you will be responsible for the sins of the tillers (i.e. the people of your kingdom) and (Allah's Statement): 'O the people of the Scripture (Jews and Christians)! Come to a word common to you and us that we worship None but Allah....bear witness that we are Muslims.' (Surah 3: Ayah 64)"
When he finished reading the letter, voices grew louder near him and there was a great hue and cry, and we were ordered to go out."
Abu Sufyan added, "While coming out, I said to my companions, 'The situation of Ibn Abu Kabsha (i.e. Muhammad) has become strong; even the king of Banu Al-Asfar is afraid of him.'
So I continued to believe that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) would be victorious, till Allah made me embrace Islam."
Az-Zuhri said, "Heraclius then invited all the chiefs of the Byzantines and had them assembled in his house and said, 'O group of Byzantines! Do you wish to have a permanent success and guidance and that your kingdom should remain with you?'
(Immediately after hearing that), they rushed towards the gate like onagers, but they found them closed. Heraclius then said, 'Bring them back to me.'
So he called them and said, 'I just wanted to test the strength of your adherence to your religion. Now I have observed of you that which I like.' Then the people fell in prostration before him and became pleased with him."
Hadith - 76
Narrated Anas bin Malik: Out of all the Ansar living in Medina, Abu Talha had the largest number of (date palm trees) gardens, and the most beloved of his property to him was Bairuha garden which was standing opposite the Mosque (of the Prophet (ﷺ)). Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to enter it and drink of its good water.
When the Verse: "By no means shall you attain righteousness unless you spend (in charity) of that which you love." (Surah 3 : Ayah 92), Abu Talha got up and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), Allah says: "By no means shall you attain righteousness unless you spend (in charity) of that which you love." (Surah 3 : Ayah 92) and the most beloved of my property to me is the Bairuha garden, so I give it (as a charitable gift) in Allah's Cause and hope to receive good out of it, and to have it stored for me with Allah.
So, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Dispose it of (i.e. utilize it) in the way Allah orders you (to dispose it of)."
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Bravo! That is a fruitful property! That is a fruitful property! I have heard what you have said and I think that you should distribute that (garden) amongst your relatives."
The Abu Talha distributed that garden amongst his relatives and his cousins.
Narrated Yahya bin Yahya: I learnt from Malik, "...a fruitful property."
Hadith - 77
Narrated Anas: Abu Talha distributed the garden between Hassan and Ubai, but he did not give me anything thereof, although I was a nearer relative to him.
Hadith - 78
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar: The Jews brought to the Prophet (ﷺ) a man and a woman from among them who had committed illegal sexual intercourse.
The Prophet (ﷺ) said to them, "How do you usually punish the one amongst you who has committed illegal sexual intercourse?" They replied, "We blacken their faces with coal and beat them."
He said, "Don't you find the order of Ar-Rajm (i.e. stoning to death) in the Torah?" They replied, "We do not find anything in it."
`Abdullah bin Salam (after hearing this conversation) said to them. "You have told a lie! Bring here the Torah and recite it if you are truthful."
(So the Jews brought the Torah). And the religious teacher who was teaching it to them put his hand over the Verse of Ar-Rajm and started reading what was written above and below the place hidden with his hand, but he did not read the Verse of Ar-Rajm.
`Abdullah bin Salam removed his (i.e. the teacher's) hand from the Verse of Ar-Rajm and said, "What is this?" So when the Jews saw that Verse, they said, "This is the Verse of Ar-Rajm."
So the Prophet (ﷺ) ordered the two adulterers to be stoned to death, and they were stoned to death near the place where biers used to be placed near the Mosque. I saw her companion (i.e. the adulterer) bowing over her so as to protect her from the stones.
Hadith - 79
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Verse: "You (true Muslims) are the best of peoples ever raised up for mankind," means, the best of peoples for the people, as you bring them with chains on their necks till they embrace Islam.
Hadith - 80
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah: The Verse: "When two parties from among you were about to lose heart, but Allah was their Protector," (Surah 3 : Ayah 122) was revealed concerning us, and we were the two parties, i.e. Banu Haritha and Banu Salama, and we do not wish (that it had not been revealed) or I would not have been pleased (if it had not been revealed), for Allah says: "...Allah was their Protector."
Hadith - 81
Narrated Salim's father: That he heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) on raising his head from the bowing in the last rak`a in the Fajr prayer, saying, "O Allah, curse such-and-such person and such-and-such person, and such-and-such person," after saying, "Allah hears him who sends his praises to Him, O our Lord, all praise is for you."
So Allah revealed: "Not for you (O Muhammad) (but for Allah) is the decision, verily they are indeed wrongdoers." (Surah 3 : Ayah 128)
Hadith - 82
Narrated Abu Huraira: Whenever Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) intended to invoke evil upon somebody or invoke good upon somebody, he used to invoke (Allah) after bowing (in the prayer) sometimes after saying, "Allah hears him who sends his praises to Him, all praise is for You, O our Lord," he would say, "O Allah. Save Al-Walid bin Al-Walid and Salama bin Hisham, and `Aiyash bin Abu Rabi`a.
O Allah! Inflict Your Severe Torture on Mudar (tribe) and strike them with (famine) years like the years of Joseph."
The Prophet (ﷺ) used to say in a loud voice, and he also used to say in some of his Fajr prayers, "O Allah! Curse so-and-so and so-and-so," naming some of the Arab tribes, till Allah revealed: "Not for you (O Muhammad) (but for Allah) is the decision." (Surah 3 : Ayah 128)
Hadith - 83
Narrated Al-Bara bin Azib: The Prophet (ﷺ) appointed `Abdullah bin Jubair as the commander of the infantry during the battle of Uhud.
They returned defeated, and that is what is meant by: "And the Apostle was calling them back in the rear." None remained with the Prophet (ﷺ) then, but twelve men.
Hadith - 84
Narrated Abu Talha: Slumber overtook us during the battle of Uhud while we were in the front files. My sword would fall from my hand and I would pick it up, and again it would fall down and I would pick it up again.
Hadith - 85
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: "Allah is Sufficient for us and He is the Best Disposer of affairs," was said by Abraham when he was thrown into the fire; and it was said by Muhammad when they (i.e. hypocrites) said, "A great army is gathering against you, therefore, fear them," but it only increased their faith and they said: "Allah is Sufficient for us, and He is the Best Disposer (of affairs for us)." (Surah 3: Ayah 173)
Hadith - 86
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: The last statement of Abraham when he was thrown into the fire was: "Allah is Sufficient for us and He is the Best Disposer (of affairs for us)." (Surah 3: Ayah 173)
Hadith - 87
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Anyone whom Allah has given wealth but he does not pay its Zakat, then on the Day of Resurrection, his wealth will be presented to him in the shape of a bald-headed poisonous male snake with two poisonous glands in its mouth and it will encircle itself round his neck and bite him over his cheeks and say, "I am your wealth; I am your treasure."
Then the Prophet (ﷺ) recited this Divine Verse: "And let not those who covetously withhold of that which Allah has bestowed upon them of His Bounty." (Surah 3 : Ayah 180)
Hadith - 88
Narrated Usama bin Zaid: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) rode a donkey, equipped with a thick cloth-covering made in Fadak and I was riding behind him.
He was going to pay visit to Sa`d bin Ubada in Banu Al-Harith bin Al-Khazraj; and this incident happened before the battle of Badr.
The Prophet (ﷺ) passed by a gathering in which `Abdullah bin Ubai bin Salul was present, and that was before `Abdullah bin Ubai embraced Islam. Behold, in that gathering there were people of different religions: there were Muslims, pagans, idol-worshippers and Jews, and in that gathering `Abdullah bin Rawaha was also present.
When a cloud of dust raised by the donkey reached that gathering, `Abdullah bin Ubai covered his nose with his garment and then said, "Do not cover us with dust."
Then Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) greeted them and stopped and dismounted and invited them to Allah (i.e. to embrace Islam) and recited to them the Holy Qur'an.
On that, `Abdullah bin Ubai bin Salul said, "O man! There is nothing better than that what you say. If it is the truth, then do not trouble us with it in our gatherings. Return to your mount (or residence) and if somebody comes to you, relate (your tales) to him."
On that, `Abdullah bin Rawaha said, "Yes, O Allah's Apostle! Bring it (i.e. what you want to say) to us in our gathering, for we love that."
So the Muslims, the pagans and the Jews started abusing one another till they were on the point of fighting with one another. The Prophet (ﷺ) kept on quietening them till they became quiet, whereupon the Prophet rode his animal (mount) and proceeded till he entered upon Sa`d bin Ubada.
The Prophet (ﷺ) said to Sa`d, "Did you not hear what 'Abu Hubab said?" He meant `Abdullah bin Ubai. "He said so-and-so."
On that, Sa`d bin Ubada said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Excuse and forgive him, for by Him Who revealed the Book to you, Allah brought the Truth which was sent to you at the time when the people of this town (i.e. Medina) had decided unanimously to crown him and tie a turban on his head (electing him as chief).
But when Allah opposed that (decision) through the Truth which Allah gave to you, he (i.e. `Abdullah bin Ubai) was grieved with jealously, and that caused him to do what you have seen."
So Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) excused him, for the Prophet (ﷺ) and his companions used to forgive the pagans and the people of Scripture as Allah had ordered them, and they used to put up with their mischief with patience.
Allah said: "And you shall certainly hear much that will grieve you from those who received the Scripture before you and from the pagans...'(Surah 3 : Ayah 186)
And Allah also said: "Many of the people of the Scripture wish if they could turn you away as disbelievers after you have believed, from selfish envy..." (Surah 2 : Ayah 109)
So the Prophet (ﷺ) used to stick to the principle of forgiveness for them as long as Allah ordered him to do so, till Allah permitted fighting them.
So when Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) fought the battle of Badr and Allah killed the nobles of Quraish infidels through him, Ibn Ubai bin Salul and the pagans and idolaters who were with him, said, "This matter (i.e. Islam) has appeared (i.e. became victorious)."
So they gave the pledge of allegiance (for embracing Islam) to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and became Muslims.
Hadith - 89
Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri: During the lifetime of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), some men among the hypocrites used to remain behind him (i.e. did not accompany him) when he went out for a Ghazwa, and they would be pleased to stay at home behind Allah's Messenger (ﷺ).
When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) returned (from the battle) they would put forward (false) excuses and take oaths, wishing to be praised for what they had not done.
So there was revealed: "Think not that those who rejoice in what they have done, and love to be praised for what they have not done." (Surah 3 : Ayah 188)
Hadith - 90
Narrated Alqama bin Waqqas: Marwan said to his gatekeeper, "Go to Ibn `Abbas, O Rafi`, and say, 'If everybody who rejoices in what he has done, and likes to be praised for what he has not done, will be punished, then all of us will be punished.'"
Ibn `Abbas said, "What connection have you with this case? It was only that the Prophet (ﷺ) called the Jews and asked them about something, and they hid the truth and told him something else, and showed him that they deserved praise for the favor of telling him the answer to his question, and they became happy with what they had concealed."
Then Ibn `Abbas recited: "(And remember) when Allah took a Covenant from those who were given the Scripture ... and those who rejoice in what they have done and love to be praised for what they have not done.' " (Surah 3: Ayat 187-188)
Humaid bin `Abdur-Rahman bin `Auf narrated that Marwan had told him (the above narration).
Hadith - 91
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: I stayed overnight in the house of my aunt Maimuna. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) talked with his wife for a while and then went to bed.
When it was the last third of the night, he got up and looked towards the sky and said: "Verily! In the creation of the Heavens and the Earth and in the alteration of night and day, there are indeed signs for men of understanding." (Surah 3 : Ayah 190)
Then he stood up, performed ablution, brushed his teeth with a Siwak, and then prayed eleven rak`at. Then Bilal pronounced the Adhan (i.e. call for the Fajr prayer).
The Prophet (ﷺ) then offered two rak`at (Sunna) prayer and went out (to the Mosque) and offered the (compulsory congregational) Fajr prayer.
Hadith - 92
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: (One night) I stayed overnight in the house of my aunt Maimuna, and said to myself, "I will watch the prayer of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)."
My aunt placed a cushion for Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and he slept on it in its length-wise direction and (woke-up) rubbing the traces of sleep off his face, and then he recited the last ten Verses of Surat-ali-`Imran till he finished it.
Then he went to a hanging water skin and took it, performed the ablution and then stood up to offer the prayer. I got up and did the same as he had done, and stood beside him. He put his hand on my head and held me by the ear and twisted it.
He offered two rak`at, then two rak`at, then two rak`at, then two rak`at, then two rak`at, then two rak`at, and finally the witr (i.e. one rak`a) prayer.
Hadith - 93
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Abbas: That once he stayed overnight (in the house) of his aunt Maimuna, the wife of the Prophet.
He added: I lay on the cushion transversely and Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) lay along with his wife in the lengthwise direction of the pillow.
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) slept till the middle of the night, either a bit before or a bit after it, and then woke up rubbing the traces of sleep off his face with his hands and then he recited the last ten Verses of Surat-ali-`Imran, got up and went to a hanging water skin.
He then performed the ablution from it, and it was perfect ablution, and then stood up to offer the prayer. I too did the same as he had done, and then went to stand beside him. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) put his right hand on my head and held and twisted my right ear.
He then offered two rak`at, then two rak`at, then two rak`at, then two rak`at, then two rak`at. then two rak`at, and finally one rak`a, the witr.
Then he lay down again till the Muadhdhin (i.e. the call-maker) came to him, whereupon he got up and offered a light two-rak`at prayer, and went out (to the Mosque) and offered the (compulsory congregational) Fajr prayer.
Hadith - 94
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: That once he stayed overnight in the house of his aunt, the wife of the Prophet.
He added: I lay on the cushion transversely while Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) lay along with his wife in the lengthwise direction of cushion.
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) slept till the middle of the night, either a bit before or a bit after it, and then woke up rubbing the traces of sleep off his face with his hands, and then recited the last ten Verses of Surat-ali-`Imran.
Then he got up and went to a hanging water skin, performed ablution from it - and performed it perfectly. Then he stood up to perform the prayer.
I also did the same as he had done and then went to stand beside him. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) put his right hand on my head and held and twisted my right ear.
He then offered two rak`at, then two rak`at then two rak`at, then two then two rak`at, then two rak`at, and finally, one rak`a witr.
Then he lay down again till the Muadhdhin (i.e. the call-maker) came to him, whereupon he got up and offered a light two rak`at prayer, and went out (to the Mosque) and offered the (compulsory congregational) Fajr prayer.