Surah An-Nisa' (The Women)
Hadith - 95
Narrated Aisha: There was an orphan (girl) under the care of a man. He married her and she owned a date-palm (garden). He married her just because of that and not because he loved her.
So the Divine Verse came regarding his case: "If you fear that you shall not be able to deal justly with the orphan girls..." (Surah 4 : Ayah 3)
The sub-narrator added: I think he (i.e. another sub-narrator) said, "That orphan girl was his partner in that date-palm (garden) and in his property."
Hadith - 96
Narrated `Urwa bin Az-Zubair: That he asked `Aisha regarding the Statement of Allah: "If you fear that you shall not be able to deal justly with the orphan girls..." (Surah 4 : Ayah 3)
She said, "O son of my sister! An orphan girl used to be under the care of a guardian with whom she shared property. Her guardian, being attracted by her wealth and beauty, would intend to marry her without giving her a just Mahr, i.e. the same Mahr as any other person might give her (in case he married her).
So such guardians were forbidden to do that unless they did justice to their female wards and gave them the highest Mahr their peers might get. They were ordered (by Allah) to marry women of their choice other than those orphan girls."
`Aisha added, "The people asked Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) his instructions after the revelation of this Divine Verse, whereupon Allah revealed: 'They ask your instruction regarding women...'" (Surah 4 : Ayah 127)
`Aisha further said, "And the Statement of Allah: 'And yet whom you desire to marry...' (Surah 4 : Ayah 127) as anyone of you refrains from marrying an orphan girl (under his guardianship) when she is lacking in property and beauty."
`Aisha added, "So they were forbidden to marry those orphan girls for whose wealth and beauty they had a desire, unless with justice, and that was because they would refrain from marrying them if they were lacking in property and beauty."
Hadith - 97
Narrated Aisha: Regarding the Statement of Allah: "And whoever amongst the guardian is rich, he should take no wages, but if he is poor, let him have for himself what is just and reasonable (according to his work)." This Verse was revealed regarding the orphan's property.
If the guardian is poor, he can take from the property of the orphan what is just and reasonable according to his work and the time he spends on managing it.
Hadith - 98
Narrated Ikrima: Ibn `Abbas said (regarding the verse), "And when the relatives and the orphans and the poor are present at the time of division," this verse and its order is valid and not abrogated.
Hadith - 99
Narrated Jabir: The Prophet (ﷺ) and Abu Bakr came on foot to pay me a visit (during my illness) at Banu Salama's (dwellings). The Prophet (ﷺ) found me unconscious, so he asked for water and performed the ablution from it and sprinkled some water over me.
I came to my senses and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! What do you order me to do as regards my wealth?" So there was revealed: "Allah commands you as regards your children's (inheritance)" (Surah 4: Ayah 11)
Hadith - 100
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: (In the Pre-Islamic Period) the children used to inherit all the property but the parents used to inherit only through a will.
So Allah cancelled that which He liked to cancel and put decreed that the share of a son was to be twice the share of a daughter, and for the parents one-sixth for each one of them, or one third, and for the wife one-eighth or one-fourth, and for the husband one-half, or one-fourth.
Hadith - 101
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: Regarding the Divine Verse: "O you who believe! You are forbidden to inherit women against their will, and you should not treat them with harshness that you may take back part of the (Mahr) dower you have given them." (Surah 4 : Ayah 19)
(Before this revelation) if a man died, his relatives used to have the right to inherit his wife, and one of them could marry her if he would, or they would give her in marriage if they wished, or if they wished, they would not give her in marriage at all, and they would be more entitled to dispose her than her own relatives.
So the above Verse was revealed in this connection.
Hadith - 102
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: Regarding the Verse: "To everyone, We have appointed heirs" (Surah 4 : Ayah 33): "Mawali" means heirs.
And regarding: "And those to whom your right hands have pledged," When the Emigrants came to Medina, an Emigrant used to be the heir of an Ansari with the exclusion of the latter's relatives, and that was because of the bond of brotherhood which the Prophet (ﷺ) had established between them (i.e. the Emigrants and the Ansar).
So when the Verses: "To everyone We have appointed heirs," was revealed, (the inheritance through bond of brotherhood) was cancelled.
Ibn `Abbas then said: "And those to whom your right hands have pledged," is concerned with the covenant of helping and advising each other. So allies are no longer to be the heir of each other, but they can bequeath each other some of their property by means of a will.
Hadith - 103
Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri: During the lifetime of the Prophet (ﷺ), some people said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Shall we see our Lord on the Day of Resurrection?"
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Yes; do you have any difficulty in seeing the sun at midday when it is bright and there is no cloud in the sky?" They replied, "No."
He said, "Do you have any difficulty in seeing the moon on a full moon night when it is bright and there is no cloud in the sky?" They replied, "No."
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "(Similarly) you will have no difficulty in seeing Allah on the Day of Resurrection as you have no difficulty in seeing either of them.
On the Day of Resurrection, a call-maker will announce, "Let every nation follow that which they used to worship."
Then none of those who used to worship anything other than Allah like idols and other deities but will fall in Hell (Fire), till there will remain none but those who used to worship Allah, both those who were obedient (i.e. good) and those who were disobedient (i.e. bad) and the remaining party of the people of the Scripture.
Then the Jews will be called upon and it will be said to them, 'Who do you use to worship?' They will say, 'We used to worship Ezra, the son of Allah.'
It will be said to them, 'You are liars, for Allah has never taken anyone as a wife or a son. What do you want now?' They will say, 'O our Lord! We are thirsty, so give us something to drink.'
They will be directed and addressed thus, 'Will you drink,' whereupon they will be gathered unto Hell (Fire) which will look like a mirage whose different sides will be destroying each other. Then they will fall into the Fire.
Afterwards the Christians will be called upon and it will be said to them, 'Who do you use to worship?' They will say, 'We used to worship Jesus, the son of Allah.'
It will be said to them, 'You are liars, for Allah has never taken anyone as a wife or a son.' Then it will be said to them, 'What do you want?' They will say what the former people have said.
Then, when there remain (in the gathering) none but those who used to worship Allah (Alone, the real Lord of the Worlds) whether they were obedient or disobedient.
Then (Allah) the Lord of the worlds will come to them in a shape nearest to the picture they had in their minds about Him. It will be said, 'What are you waiting for? Every nation have followed what they used to worship.'
They will reply, 'We left the people in the world when we were in great need of them and we did not take them as friends. Now we are waiting for our Lord Whom we used to worship.'
Allah will say, 'I am your Lord.' They will say twice or thrice, 'We do not worship any besides Allah.'"
Hadith - 104
Narrated `Abdullah bin Mas`ud: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said to me, "Recite (of the Qur'an) for me." I said, "Shall I recite it to you although it had been revealed to you?" He said, "I like to hear (the Qur'an) from others."
So I recited Surat-an-Nisa' till I reached: "How (will it be) then when We bring from each nation a witness, and We bring you (O Muhammad) as a witness against these people?" (Surah 4 : Ayah 41). Then he said, "Stop!" And behold, his eyes were overflowing with tears.
Hadith - 105
Narrated `Aisha: The necklace of Asma' was lost, so the Prophet (ﷺ) sent some men to look for it. The time for the prayer became due and they had not performed ablution and could not find water, so they offered the prayer without ablution. Then Allah revealed (the Verse of Tayammum).
Hadith - 106
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: The Verse: "Obey Allah and Obey the Apostle and those of you (Muslims) who are in authority," (Surah 4 : Ayah 59) was revealed in connection with `Abdullah bin Hudhafa bin Qais bin `Adi' when the Prophet (ﷺ) appointed him as the commander of a Sariyya (army detachment).
Hadith - 107
Narrated `Urwa: Az-Zubair quarrelled with a man from the Ansar because of a natural mountainous stream at Al-Harra. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O Zubair! Irrigate (your lands) and the let the water flow to your neighbor.
The Ansar said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! (This is because) he (Zubair) is your cousin?"
At that, the Prophet's face became red (with anger) and he said, "O Zubair! Irrigate (your land) and then withhold the water till it fills the land up to the walls and then let it flow to your neighbor."
So the Prophet (ﷺ) enabled Az-Zubair to take his full right after the Ansari provoked his anger. The Prophet (ﷺ) had previously given a order that was in favor of both of them.
Az-Zubair said, 'I don't think but the Verse was revealed in this connection: "But no, by your Lord, they can have no faith, until they make you judge in all disputes between them." (Surah 4: Ayah 65)'
Hadith - 108
Narrated `Aisha: I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "No prophet gets sick but he is given the choice to select either this world or the Hereafter."
`Aisha added: During his fatal illness, his voice became very husky and I heard him saying: "In the company of those whom is the Grace of Allah, of the prophets, the Siddiqin (those followers of the prophets who were first and foremost to believe in them), the martyrs and the pious." (Surah 4 : Ayah 69)
And from this I came to know that he has been given the option.
Hadith - 109
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: My mother and I were among the weak and oppressed (Muslims at Mecca).
Hadith - 110
Narrated Ibn Abi Mulaika: Ibn `Abbas recited: "Except the weak ones among men women and children," (Surah 4 : Ayah 98) and said, "My mother and I were among those whom Allah had excused."
Hadith - 111
Narrated Zaid bin Thabit: Regarding the Verse: "Then what is the matter with you that you are divided into two parties about the hypocrites?" (Surah 4 : Ayah 88) Some of the companions of the Prophet (ﷺ) returned from the battle of Uhud (i.e. refused to fight), whereupon the Muslims got divided into two parties; one of them was in favor of their execution and the other was not in favour of it.
So there were revealed: "Then what is the matter with you that you are divided into two parties about the hypocrites?" (Surah 4 : Ayah 88).
Then the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "It (i.e. Medina) is Taybah (good), it expels impurities as the fire expels the impurities of silver."
Hadith - 112
Narrated Sa`id bin Jubair: The people of Kufa disagreed (disputed) about the above Verse. So I went to Ibn `Abbas and asked him about it.
He said, 'This Verse: "And whoever kills a believer intentionally, his recompense is Hell," was revealed last of all (concerning premeditated murder) and nothing abrogated it.'
Hadith - 113
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: Regarding the Verse: "And say not to anyone who offers you peace (by accepting Islam): You are not a believer." There was a man amidst his sheep. The Muslims pursued him, and he said (to them), "Peace be on you." But they killed him and took over his sheep.
Thereupon Allah revealed in that concern the above Verse up to: "...seeking the perishable good of this life" (Surah 4 : Ayah 94), i.e. those sheep.
Hadith - 114
Narrated Zaid bin Thabit: That the Prophet (ﷺ) dictated to him: "Not equal are those of the believers who sit (at home) and those who strive and fight in the Cause of Allah."
Zaid added: Ibn Um Maktum came while the Prophet (ﷺ) was dictating to me and said, "O Allah's Apostle! By Allah, if I had the power to fight (in Allah's Cause), I would," and he was a blind man.
So Allah revealed to his Apostle while his thigh was on my thigh, and his thigh became so heavy that I was afraid it might fracture my thigh. Then that state of the Prophet (ﷺ) passed and Allah revealed: "Except those who are disabled (by injury or are blind or lame etc)."
Hadith - 115
Narrated Al-Bara: When the Verse: "Not equal are those of the believers who sit (at home)" (Surah 4 : Ayah 95) was revealed, Allah's Apostle called for Zaid who wrote it.
In the meantime, Ibn Um Maktum came and complained of his blindness, so Allah revealed: "Except those who are disabled (by injury or are blind or lame... etc)." (Surah 4: Ayah 95)
Hadith - 116
Narrated Al-Bara: When the Verse: "Not equal are those of the believers who sit (at home)," (Surah 4 : Ayah 95) was revealed, the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Call so-and-so."
That person came to him with an ink-pot and a wooden board or a shoulder scapula bone. The Prophet (ﷺ) said (to him), "Write: 'Not equal are those believers who sit (at home) and those who strive and fight in the Cause of Allah.'"
Ibn Um Maktum who was sitting behind the Prophet (ﷺ) then said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! I am a blind man."
So there was revealed in the place of that Verse, the Verse: "Not equal are those of the believers who sit (at home) except those who are disabled (by injury, or are blind or lame etc.) and those who strive and fight in the Cause of Allah" (Surah 4 : Ayah 95)
Hadith - 117
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: Not equal are those believers who sat (at home) and did not join the Badr battle and those who joined the Badr battle.
Hadith - 118
Narrated Muhammad bin `Abdur-Rahman Abu Al-Aswad: The people of Medina were forced to prepare an army (to fight against the people of Sham during the caliphate of `Abdullah bin Az-Zubair at Mecca), and I was enlisted in it.
Then I met `Ikrima, the freed slave of Ibn `Abbas, and informed him (about it), and he forbade me strongly to do so (i.e. to enlist in that army), and then said, "Ibn `Abbas informed me that some Muslim people were with the pagans, increasing the number of the pagans against Allah's Messenger (ﷺ).
An arrow used to be shot which would hit one of them (the Muslims in the company of the pagans) and kill him, or he would be struck and killed (with a sword)."
Then Allah revealed: "Verily! as for those whom the angels take (in death) while they are wronging themselves (by staying among the disbelievers)" (Surah 4 : Ayah 97)
Abu Al-Aswad also narrated it.
Hadith - 119
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: "Except the weak ones" (Surah 4 : Ayah 98) and added: My mother was one of those whom Allah excused.
Hadith - 120
Narrated Abu Huraira: While the Prophet (ﷺ) was offering the `Isha' prayer, he said, "Allah hears him who sends his praises to Him," and then said before falling in prostration, "O Allah, save `Aiyash bin Rabi`a. O Allah, save Salama bin Hisham. O Allah, save Al-Walid bin Al-Walid.
O Allah, save the weak ones among the believers. O Allah, let Your punishment be severe on the tribe of Mudar. O Allah, inflict upon them years (of famine) like the years of Joseph."
Hadith - 121
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: Regarding the Verse: "Because of the inconvenience of rain or because you are ill." (Surah 4 : Ayah 102) (It was revealed in connection with) `Abdur-Rahman bin `Auf who was wounded.
Hadith - 122
Narrated `Aisha: Regarding the Verse: "They ask your instruction concerning the women. Say: Allah instructs you about them and yet whom you desire to marry..." (Surah 4 : Ayah 127) (has been revealed regarding the case of) a man who has an orphan girl, and he is her guardian and her heir.
The girl shares with him all his property, even a date-palm (garden), but he dislikes to marry her and dislikes to give her in marriage to somebody else who would share with him the property she is sharing with him, and for this reason that guardian prevents that orphan girl from marrying.
So, this Verse was revealed: (And Allah's statement:) "If a woman fears cruelty or desertion on her husband's part..." (Surah 4 : Ayah 128)
Hadith - 123
Narrated `Aisha: Regarding the Verse: "If a woman fears cruelty or desertion on her husband's part..." (Surah 4 : Ayah 128) It is about a man who has a woman (wife) and he does not like her and wants to divorce her but she says to him, "I make you free as regards myself." So this Verse was revealed in this connection.
Hadith - 124
Narrated Al-Aswad: While we were sitting in a circle in `Abdullah's gathering, Hudhaifa came and stopped before us, and greeted us and then said, "People better than you became hypocrites."
Al-Aswad said: I testify the uniqueness of Allah! Allah says: "Verily! The hypocrites will be in the lowest depths of the Fire." (Surah 4: Ayah 145)
On that, `Abdullah smiled and Hudhaifa sat somewhere in the Mosque. `Abdullah then got up and his companions (sitting around him) dispersed.
Hudhaifa then threw a pebble at me (to attract my attention). I went to him and he said, "I was surprised at `Abdullah's smile though he understood what I said. Verily, people better than you became hypocrites and then repented and Allah forgave them."
Hadith - 125
Narrated `Abdullah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "None has the right to say that I am better than Jonah bin Matta."
Hadith - 126
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Whoever says that I am better than Jonah bin Matta is a liar."
Hadith - 127
Narrated Al-Bara: The last Sura that was revealed was Bara'a, and the last Verse that was revealed was: "They ask you for a legal verdict, Say: Allah's directs (thus) about those who leave no descendants or ascendants as heirs." (Surah 4: Ayah 176)