Surah Al-Ma'idah (The Spread Table)
Hadith - 128
Narrated Tariq bin Shihab: The Jews said to `Umar, "You (i.e. Muslims) recite a Verse, and had it been revealed to us, we would have taken the day of its revelation as a day of celebration."
`Umar said, "I know very well when and where it was revealed, and where Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was when it was revealed. (It was revealed on) the day of `Arafat (Hajj Day), and by Allah, I was at `Arafat."
Sufyan, a sub-narrator said: I am in doubt whether the Verse: "This day I have perfected your religion for you," was revealed on a Friday or not.
Hadith - 129
Narrated Aisha (the wife of the Prophet (ﷺ)): We set out with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) on one of his journeys, and when we were at Baida' or at Dhat-al-Jaish, a necklace of mine was broken (and lost).
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) stayed there to look for it, and so did the people along with him. Neither were they at a place of water, nor did they have any water with them.
So the people went to Abu Bakr As-Siddiq and said, "Don't you see what `Aisha has done? She has made Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and the people stay where there is no water and they have no water with them."
Abu Bakr came while Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was sleeping with his head on my thigh. He said (to me), "You have detained Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and the people where there is no water, and they have no water with them."
So he admonished me and said what Allah wished him to say, and he hit me on my flanks with his hand. Nothing prevented me from moving (because of pain) but the position of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) on my thigh.
So Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) got up when dawn broke and there was no water, so Allah revealed the Verse of Tayammum. Usaid bin Hudair said, "It is not the first blessing of yours, O the family of Abu Bakr."
Then we made the camel on which I was riding get up, and found the necklace under it.
Hadith - 130
Narrated Aisha: A necklace of mine was lost at Al-Baida' and we were on our way to Medina. The Prophet (ﷺ) made his camel kneel down and dismounted and laid his head on my lap and slept.
Abu Bakr came to me and hit me violently on the chest and said, "You have detained the people because of a necklace." I kept as motionless as a dead person because of the position of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (on my lap) although Abu Bakr had hurt me (with the slap).
Then the Prophet (ﷺ) woke up and it was the time for the morning (prayer). Water was sought, but in vain; so the following Verse was revealed: "O you who believe! When you intend to offer prayer..." (Surah 5 : Ayah 6)
Usaid bin Hudair said, "Allah has blessed the people for your sake, O the family of Abu Bakr. You are but a blessing for them."
Hadith - 131
Narrated `Abdullah (bin Mas`ud): On the day of Badr, Al-Miqdad said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! We do not say to you as the children of Israel said to Moses, 'Go you and your Lord and fight you two; we are sitting here,' (Surah 5 : Ayah 24), but (we say), 'Proceed, and we are with you.'"
That seemed to delight Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) greatly.
Hadith - 132
Narrated Abu Qilaba: That he was sitting behind `Umar bin `Abdul `Aziz and the people mentioned and mentioned (about al-Qasama) and they said (various things), and said that the Caliphs had permitted it.
`Umar bin `Abdul `Aziz turned towards Abu Qilaba who was behind him and said, "What do you say, O `Abdullah bin Zaid?" or said, "What do you say, O Abu Qilaba?"
Abu Qilaba said, "I do not know that killing a person is lawful in Islam except in three cases: a married person committing illegal sexual intercourse, one who has murdered somebody unlawfully, or one who wages war against Allah and His Apostle."
'Anbasa said, "Anas narrated to us such-and-such." Abu Qilaba said, "Anas narrated to me in this concern, saying, some people came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and they spoke to him saying, 'The climate of this land does not suit us.'
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'These are camels belonging to us, and they are to be taken out to the pasture. So take them out and drink of their milk and urine.'
So they took them and set out and drank of their urine and milk, and having recovered, they attacked the shepherd, killed him and drove away the camels.'
Why should there be any delay in punishing them as they murdered (a person) and waged war against Allah and His Apostle and frightened Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)?"
Anbasa said, "I testify the uniqueness of Allah!" Abu Qilaba said, "Do you suspect me?" 'Anbasa said, "No, Anas narrated that (Hadith) to us."
Then 'Anbasa added, "O the people of such-and-such (country), you will remain in good state as long as Allah keeps this (man) and the like of this (man) amongst you."
Hadith - 133
Narrated Anas (bin Malik): Ar-Rubai (the paternal aunt of Anas bin Malik) broke the incisor tooth of a young Ansari girl. Her family demanded the Qisas and they came to the Prophet (ﷺ) who passed the judgment of Qisas.
Anas bin An-Nadr (the paternal uncle of Anas bin Malik) said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! By Allah, her tooth will not be broken." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O Anas! (The law prescribed in) Allah's Book is Qisas."
But the people (i.e. the relatives of the girl) gave up their claim and accepted a compensation. On that, Allah's Apostle said, "Some of Allah's worshippers are such that if they take an oath, Allah will fulfill it for them."
Hadith - 134
Narrated `Aisha: Whoever tells that Muhammad concealed part of what was revealed to him is a liar, for Allah says: "O Apostle (Muhammad)! Proclaim (the Message) which has been sent down to you from your Lord." (Surah 5: Ayah 67)
Hadith - 135
Narrated `Aisha: This Verse: "Allah will not punish you for what is unintentional in your oaths," (Surah 5 : Ayah 89) was revealed about a man's statement (during his talk), "No, by Allah," and "Yes, by Allah."
Hadith - 136
Narrated Aisha: That her father (Abu Bakr) never broke his oath till Allah revealed the order of the legal expiation for oath.
Abu Bakr said, "If I ever take an oath (to do something) and later find that to do something else is better, then I accept Allah's permission and do that which is better, (and do the legal expiation for my oath)."
Hadith - 137
Narrated `Abdullah: We used to participate in the holy wars carried on by the Prophet (ﷺ) and we had no women (wives) with us. So we said (to the Prophet (ﷺ)), "Shall we castrate ourselves?"
But the Prophet (ﷺ) forbade us to do that, and thenceforth he allowed us to marry a woman (temporarily) by giving her even a garment, and then he recited: "O you who believe! Do not make unlawful the good things which Allah has made lawful for you."
Hadith - 138
Narrated Ibn `Umar: (The Verse of) prohibiting alcoholic drinks was revealed when there were in Medina five kinds of (alcoholic) drinks, none of which was produced from grapes.
Hadith - 139
Narrated Anas bin Malik: We had no alcoholic drink except that which was produced from dates and which you call Fadikh.
While I was standing, offering drinks to Abu Talha and so-and-so and so-and-so, a man came and said, "Has the news reached you?" They said, "What is that?" He said, "Alcoholic drinks have been prohibited." They said, "Spill (the contents of) these pots, O Anas!"
Then they neither asked about it (alcoholic drinks) nor returned to it after the news from that man.
Hadith - 140
Narrated Jabir: Some people drank alcoholic beverages in the morning (of the day) of the Uhud battle and on the same day they were killed as martyrs, and that was before wine was prohibited.
Hadith - 141
Narrated Ibn `Umar: I heard `Umar while he was on the pulpit of the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "Now then, O people! The revelation about the prohibition of alcoholic drinks was revealed; and alcoholic drinks are extracted from five things: Grapes, dates, honey, wheat and barley. And the alcoholic drink is that which confuses and stupefies the mind."
Hadith - 142
Narrated Anas: The alcoholic drink which was spilled was Al-Fadikh. I used to offer alcoholic drinks to the people at the residence of Abu Talha.
Then the order of prohibiting alcoholic drinks was revealed, and the Prophet (ﷺ) ordered somebody to announce that.
Abu Talha said to me, "Go out and see what this voice (this announcement) is." I went out and (on coming back) said, "This is somebody announcing that alcoholic beverages have been prohibited." Abu Talha said to me, "Go and spill it (i.e. the wine)."
Then it (alcoholic drinks) was seen flowing through the streets of Medina. At that time, the wine was Al-Fadikh.
The people said, "Some people (Muslims) were killed (during the battle of Uhud) while wine was in their stomachs." So Allah revealed: "On those who believe and do good deeds there is no blame for what they ate (in the past)." (Surah 5: Ayah 93)
Hadith - 143
Narrated Anas: The Prophet (ﷺ) delivered a sermon the like of which I had never heard before. He said, "If you but knew what I know, then you would have laughed little and wept much."
On hearing that, the companions of the Prophet (ﷺ) covered their faces and the sound of their weeping was heard.
A man said, "Who is my father?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "So-and-so." So this Verse was revealed: "Ask not about things which, if made plain to you, may cause you trouble." (Surah 5: Ayah 101)
Hadith - 144
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: Some people were asking Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) questions mockingly. A man would say, "Who is my father?" Another man whose she-camel had gone astray would say, "Where is my she-camel?"
So Allah revealed this Verse in this connection: "O you who believe! Ask not about things which, if made plain to you, may cause you trouble." (Surah 5: Ayah 101)
Hadith - 145
Narrated Sa`id bin Al-Musaiyab: Bahira is a she-camel whose milk is kept for the idols and nobody is allowed to milk it; Sa'iba was the she-camel which they used to set free for their gods and nothing was allowed to be carried on it.
Abu Huraira said: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "I saw `Amr bin 'Amir Al-Khuza`i (in a dream) dragging his intestines in the Fire, and he was the first person to establish the tradition of setting free the animals (for the sake of their deities)."
Wasila is the she-camel which gives birth to a she-camel as its first delivery, and then gives birth to another she-camel as its second delivery.
People (in the Pre-Islamic periods of ignorance) used to let that she-camel loose for their idols if it gave birth to two she-camels successively without giving birth to a male camel in between.
Ham was the male camel which was used for copulation. When it had finished the number of copulations assigned for it, they would let it loose for their idols and excuse it from burdens so that nothing would be carried on it, and they called it the "Hami."
Abu Huraira said, "I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying so."
Hadith - 146
Narrated Aisha: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "I saw Hell and its different portions were consuming each other, and saw `Amr dragging his intestines (in it), and he was the first person to establish the tradition of letting animals loose (for the idols)."
Hadith - 147
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) delivered a sermon and said, "O people! You will be gathered before Allah barefooted, naked and not circumcised."
Then (quoting Qur'an) he said: "As We began the first creation, We shall repeat it. A promise We have undertaken: Truly We shall do it..." (Surah 21 : Ayah 104)
The Prophet (ﷺ) then said, "The first of the human beings to be dressed on the Day of Resurrection, will be Abraham.
Lo! Some men from my followers will be brought and then (the angels) will drive them to the left side (Hell-Fire). I will say, 'O my Lord! (They are) my companions!' Then a reply will come (from the Almighty), 'You do not know what they did after you.'
I will say as the pious slave (the Prophet Jesus (ﷺ)) said: And I was a witness over them while I dwelt amongst them. When You took me up, You were the Watcher over them and You are a Witness to all things.' (Surah 5 : Ayah 117)
Then it will be said, 'These people have continued to be apostates since you left them.'"
Hadith - 148
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "You will be gathered (on the Day of Resurrection) and some people will be driven (by the angels) to the left side (and taken to Hell), whereupon I will say as the pious slave (Jesus) said: 'And I was a witness over them while I dwelt amongst them ... the Almighty, the All Wise.'" (Surah 5 : Ayat 117-118)
Surah al-An'am (The Cattle)
Hadith - 149
Narrated `Abdullah: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The keys of the Unseen are five: Verily with Allah (Alone) is the knowledge of the Hour, He sends down the rain and knows what is in the wombs. No soul knows what it will earn tomorrow, and no soul knows in what land it will die. Verily, Allah is All-Knower, All-Aware." (Surah 31 : Ayah 34)
Hadith - 150
Narrated Jabir: When this Verse was revealed: "Say: He has power to send torment on you from above" (Surah 6 : Ayah 65), Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "O Allah! I seek refuge with Your Face (from this punishment)."
And when the verse: "or send torment from below your feet," (was revealed), Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "(O Allah!) I seek refuge with Your Face (from this punishment)."
(But when there was revealed): "Or confuse you in party strife and make you to taste the violence of one another," (Surah 6 : Ayah 65) Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "This is lighter (or, this is easier)."
Hadith - 151
Narrated `Abdullah: When: "...and confuse not their belief with wrong," (Surah 6 : Ayah 82) was revealed, the Prophet's companions said, "Which of us has not done wrong?"
Then there was revealed: "Verily joining others in worship with Allah is a tremendous wrong indeed," (Surah 31 : Ayah 13)
Hadith - 152
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Nobody has the right to say that I am better than Jonah bin Matta."
Hadith - 153
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Nobody has the right to say that I am better than Jonah bin Matta."
Hadith - 154
Narrated Mujahid: That he asked Ibn `Abbas, "Is there a prostration in Surat-al-Sa`d?" (Surah 38 : Ayah 24). Ibn `Abbas said, "Yes," and then recited: "We gave ... So follow their guidance" (Surah 6: Ayat 85-90). Then he said, "He (David) is one of them (i.e. those prophets)."
Mujahid narrated: I asked Ibn `Abbas (regarding the above Verse). He said, "Your Prophet (Muhammad) was one of those who were ordered to follow them."
Hadith - 155
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "May Allah curse the Jews! When Allah forbade them to eat the fat of animals, they melted it and sold it, and utilized its price."
Hadith - 156
Narrated Abu Wa'il: `Abdullah (bin Mas`ud) said, "None has more sense of ghaira than Allah, therefore He prohibits shameful sins (illegal sexual intercourse, etc) whether committed openly or secretly.
And none loves to be praised more than Allah does, and for this reason He praises Himself."
I asked Abu Wa'il, "Did you hear it from `Abdullah?" He said, "Yes." I said, "Did `Abdullah ascribe it to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)?" He said, "Yes."
Hadith - 157
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The Hour will not be established until the sun rises from the West; and when the people see it, then whoever will be living on the surface of the earth will have faith, and that is (the time) when no good will it do to a soul to believe then, if it believed not before." (Surah 6 : Ayah 158)
Hadith - 158
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The hour will not be established till the sun rises from the West; and when it rises (from the West) and the people see it, they all will believe. And that is (the time) when no good will it do to a soul to believe then." Then he recited the whole Verse. (Surah 6 : Ayah 158)