Hadith - 159
Narrated `Abdullah bin Mas`ud: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "None has more sense of ghaira than Allah, and for this He has forbidden shameful sins whether committed openly or secretly, and none loves to be praised more than Allah does, and this is why He Praises Himself.
Hadith - 160
Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri: A man from the Jews, having been slapped on his face, came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said, "O Muhammad! A man from your companions from the Ansar has slapped me on my face!" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Call him." When they called him, the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Why did you slap him?" He said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! While I was passing by the Jews, I heard him saying, 'By Him Who selected Moses above the human beings,' I said, 'Even above Muhammad?' I became furious and slapped him on the face." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Do not give me superiority over the other prophets, for on the Day of Resurrection the people will become unconscious and I will be the first to regain consciousness. Then I will see Moses holding one of the legs of the Throne. I will not know whether he has come to his senses before me or that the shock he had received at the Mountain, (during his worldly life) was sufficient for him.
Hadith - 161
Narrated Sa`id Ibn Zaid: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Al-Kam'a is like the Manna (sweet resin or gum) (in that it grows naturally without human care) and its water is a cure for the eye diseases."
Hadith - 162
Narrated Abu Ad-Darda: There was a dispute between Abu Bakr and `Umar, and Abu Bakr made `Umar angry. So `Umar left angrily. Abu Bakr followed him, requesting him to ask forgiveness (of Allah) for him, but `Umar refused to do so and closed his door in Abu Bakr's face. So Abu Bakr went to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) while we were with him. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "This friend of yours must have quarrelled (with somebody)." In the meantime `Umar repented and felt sorry for what he had done, so he came, greeted (those who were present) and sat with the Prophet (ﷺ) and related the story to him. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) became angry and Abu Bakr started saying, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! By Allah, I was more at fault (than `Umar)." Allah's Apostle said, "Are you (people) leaving for me my companion? (Abu Bakr), Are you (people) leaving for me my companion? When I said, 'O people I am sent to you all as the Messenger of Allah,' you said, 'You tell a lie.' while Abu Bakr said, 'You have spoken the truth.
Hadith - 163
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "It was said to the children of Israel, 'Enter the gate in prostration and say Hittatun. (Surah 7 : Ayah 161) We shall forgive you your faults.' But they changed (Allah's Order) and entered, dragging themselves on their buttocks and said, "Habbatun (a grain) in a Sha'ratin (hair)."
Hadith - 164
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: 'Uyaina bin Hisn bin Hudhaifa came and stayed with his nephew Al-Hurr bin Qais who was one of those whom `Umar used to keep near him, as the Qurra' (learned men knowing Qur'an by heart) were the people of `Umar's meetings and his advisors whether they were old or young. 'Uyaina said to his nephew, "O son of my brother! You have an approach to this chief, so get for me the permission to see him." Al-Hurr said, "I will get the permission for you to see him." So Al-Hurr asked the permission for 'Uyaina and `Umar admitted him. When 'Uyaina entered upon him, he said, "Beware! O the son of Al-Khattab! By Allah, you neither give us sufficient provision nor judge among us with justice." Thereupon `Umar became so furious that he intended to harm him, but Al-Hurr said, "O chief of the Believers! Allah said to His Prophet: "Hold to forgiveness; command what is right; and leave (don't punish) the foolish." (Surah 7 : Ayah 199) and this (i.e. 'Uyaina) is one of the foolish." By Allah, `Umar did not overlook that Verse when Al-Hurr recited it before him; he observed (the orders of) Allah's Book strictly.
Hadith - 165
Narrated `Abdullah bin Az-Zubair: (The Verse) "Hold to forgiveness; command what is right..." was revealed by Allah except in connection with the character of the people.
Hadith - 166
Abdullah bin Az-Zubair said: Allah ordered His Prophet to forgive the people their misbehavior (towards him).
Hadith - 167
Narrated Sa`id bin Jubair: I asked Ibn `Abbas regarding Surat-al-Anfal. He said, "It was revealed in connection with the Battle of Badr.
Hadith - 168
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: Regarding the Verse: "Verily! The worst of beasts in the Sight of Allah are the deaf and the dumb - those who understand not." (Surah 8 : Ayah 22) (The people referred to here) were some persons from the tribe of Bani `Abd Ad-dar.
Hadith - 169
Narrated Abu Sa`id bin Al-Mu'alla: While I was praying, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) passed me and called me, but I did not go to him until I had finished the prayer. Then I went to him, and he said, "What prevented you from coming to me? Didn't Allah say: "O you who believe! Answer the call of Allah (by obeying Him) and His Apostle when He calls you?" He then said, "I will inform you of the greatest Sura in the Qur'an before I leave (the mosque)." When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) got ready to leave (the mosque), I reminded him. He said, "It is: 'Praise be to Allah, the Lord of the worlds.' (i.e. Surat-al-Fatiha) As-sab'a Al-Mathani (the seven repeatedly recited Verses).
Hadith - 170
Narrated Anas bin Malik: Abu Jahl said, "O Allah! If this (Qur'an) is indeed the Truth from You, then rain down on us a shower of stones from the sky or bring on us a painful torment." So Allah revealed: "But Allah would not punish them while you were amongst them, nor He will punish them while they seek (Allah's) forgiveness..." (Surah 8 : Ayah 33) And why Allah should not punish them while they turn away (men) from Al-Masjid-al-Haram (the Sacred Mosque of Mecca)." (Surah 8 : Ayat 33-34)
Hadith - 171
Narrated Anas bin Malik: Abu Jahl said, "O Allah! If this (Qur'an) is indeed the Truth from You, then rain down on us a shower of stones from the sky or bring on us a painful punishment." So there was revealed: 'But Allah would not punish them while you (Muhammad) were amongst them, nor will He punish them while they seek (Allah's) Forgiveness. And why Allah should not punish them while they stop (men) from Al-Masjid-al-Haram.' (Surah 8 : Ayat 33-34)
Hadith - 172
Narrated Ibn `Umar: That a man came to him (while two groups of Muslims were fighting) and said, "O Abu `Abdur Rahman! Don't you hear what Allah has mentioned in His Book: 'And if two groups of believers fight against each other...' (Surah 49 : Ayah 9) So what prevents you from fighting as Allah has mentioned in His Book?"' Ibn `Umar said, "O son of my brother! I would rather be blamed for not fighting because of this Verse than to be blamed because of another Verse where Allah says: 'And whoever kills a believer intentionally..." (Surah 4 : Ayah 93) Then that man said, "Allah says: 'And fight them until there is no more afflictions (worshipping other besides Allah) and the religion (i.e. worship) will be all for Allah (Alone)" (Surah 8 : Ayah 39) Ibn `Umar said, "We did this during the lifetime of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) when the number of Muslims was small, and a man was put to trial because of his religion, the pagans would either kill or chain him; but when the Muslims increased (and Islam spread), there was no persecution." When that man saw that Ibn `Umar did not agree to his proposal, he said, "What is your opinion regarding `Ali and `Uthman?" Ibn `Umar said, "What is my opinion regarding `Ali and `Uthman? As for `Uthman, Allah forgave him and you disliked to forgive him, and `Ali is the cousin and son-in-law of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) ." Then he pointed out with his hand and said, "And that is his daughter's (house) which you can see.
Hadith - 173
Narrated Sa`id bin Jubair: Ibn `Umar came to us and a man said (to him), "What do you think about 'Qitalil-Fitnah' (fighting caused by afflictions)." Ibn `Umar said (to him), "And do you understand what an affliction is? Muhammad used to fight against the pagans, and his fighting with them was an affliction, (and his fighting was) not like your fighting which is carried on for the sake of ruling."
Hadith - 174
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: When the Verse: "If there are twenty steadfast amongst you, they will overcome two hundred." (Surah 8 : Ayah 65) was revealed, then it became obligatory for the Muslims that one (Muslim) should not flee from ten (non-Muslims). Sufyan (the sub-narrator) once said, "Twenty (Muslims) should not flee before two hundred (non Muslims)." Then there was revealed: 'But now Allah has lightened your (task)..' (Surah 8 : Ayah 66) So it became obligatory that one-hundred (Muslims) should not flee before two hundred (non-muslims). (Once Sufyan said extra, "The Verse: 'Urge the believers to the fight. If there are twenty steadfast amongst you (Muslims)...' was revealed.) Sufyan said, "Ibn Shubruma said, "I see that this order is applicable to the obligation of enjoining good and forbidding evil."
Hadith - 175
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: When the Verse: 'If there are twenty steadfast amongst you (Muslims), they will overcome two-hundred (non-Muslims).' was revealed, it became hard on the Muslims when it became compulsory that one Muslim ought not to flee (in war) before ten (non-Muslims). So (Allah) lightened the order by revealing: '(But) now Allah has lightened your (task) for He knows that there is weakness in you. So if there are of you one-hundred steadfast, they will overcome two-hundred (non-Muslims).' (Surah 8 : Ayah 66) So when Allah reduced the number of enemies which Muslims should withstand, their patience and perseverance against the enemy decreased as much as their task was lightened for them.
Hadith - 176
Narrated Al-Bara: The last Verse that was revealed was: 'They ask you for a legal verdict: Say: Allah directs (thus) about Al-Kalalah (those who leave no descendants or ascendants as heirs).' And the last Surah which was revealed was Baraatun. (Surah 9)
Hadith - 177
Narrated Humaid bin `Abdur-Rahman: Abu Huraira said, "During that Hajj (in which Abu Bakr was the chief of the pilgrims) Abu Bakr sent me along with announcers on the Day of Nahr ( 10th of Dhul-Hijja) in Mina to announce: "No pagans shall perform, Hajj after this year, and none shall perform the Tawaf around the Ka`ba in a naked state." Humaid bin `Abdur Rahman added: Then Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) sent `Ali bin Abi Talib (after Abu Bakr) and ordered him to recite aloud in public Surat Bara'a. Abu Huraira added, "So `Ali, along with us, recited Bara'a (loudly) before the people at Mina on the Day of Nahr and announced; "No pagan shall perform Hajj after this year and none shall perform the Tawaf around the Ka`ba in a naked state.
Hadith - 178
Narrated Humaid bin `Abdur Rahman: Abu Huraira said, "Abu Bakr sent me in that Hajj in which he was the chief of the pilgrims along with the announcers whom he sent on the Day of Nahr to announce at Mina: "No pagan shall perform Hajj after this year, and none shall perform the Tawaf around the Ka`ba in a naked state." Humaid added: That the Prophet (ﷺ) sent `Ali bin Abi Talib (after Abu Bakr) and ordered him to recite aloud in public Surat-Bara'a. Abu Huraira added, "So `Ali, along with us, recited Bara'a (loudly) before the people at Mina on the Day of Nahr and announced "No pagan shall perform Hajj after this year and none shall perform the Tawaf around the Ka`ba in a naked state.
Hadith - 179
Narrated Humaid bin `Abdur-Rahman: Abu Huraira said that Abu Bakr sent him during the Hajj in which Abu Bakr was made the chief of the pilgrims by Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) before (the year of) Hajjat al-Wada` in a group (of announcers) to announce before the people; 'No pagan shall perform the Hajj after this year, and none shall perform the Tawaf around the Ka`ba in a naked state. Humaid used to say The Day of Nahr is the day of Al-Hajj Al-Akbar (the Greatest Day) because of the narration of Abu Huraira.
Hadith - 180
Narrated Zaid bin Wahb: We were with Hudhaifa and he said, "None remains of the people described by this Verse (Surah 9 : Ayah 12), "Except three, and of the hypocrites except four." A bedouin said, "You the companions of Muhammad! Tell us (things) and we do not know that about those who break open our houses and steal our precious things?" He (Hudhaifa) replied, "Those are Al-Fussaq (rebellious wrongdoers) (not disbelievers or hypocrites). Really, none remains of them (hypocrite) but four, one of whom is a very old man who, if he drinks water, does not feel its coldness."
Hadith - 181
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The Kanz (money, the Zakat of which is not paid) of anyone of you will appear in the form of bald-headed poisonous male snake on the Day of Resurrection."
Hadith - 182
Narrated Zaid bin Wahb: I passed by (visited ) Abu Dhar at Ar-Rabadha and said to him, "What has brought you to this land?" He said, "We were at Sham and I recited the Verse: "They who hoard up gold and silver and spend them not in the way of Allah; announce to them a painful torment, " (Surah 9 : Ayah 34) where upon Muawiya said, 'This Verse is not for us, but for the people of the Scripture.' Then I said, 'But it is both for us (Muslim) and for them.
Hadith - 183
Narrated Khãlid bin Aslam: We went out with 'Abdullãh bin 'Umar and he said, "This (Verse) was revealed before the prescription of Zakat, and when Zakãt was prescribed, Allah made it a means of purifying one's wealth.
Hadith - 184
Narrated Abu Bakr: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Time has come back to its original state which it had when Allah created the Heavens and the Earth; the year is twelve months, four of which are sacred. Three of them are in succession; Dhul-Qa'da, Dhul-Hijja and Al-Muharram, and (the fourth being) Rajab Mudar (named after the tribe of Mudar as they used to respect this month) which stands between Jumad (ath-thani) and Sha'ban.
Hadith - 185
Narrated Abu Bakr: I was in the company of the Prophet (ﷺ) in the cave, and on seeing the traces of the pagans, I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) If one of them (pagans) should lift up his foot, he will see us." He said, "What do you think of two, the third of whom is Allah?
Hadith - 186
Narrated Ibn Abi Mulaika: When there happened the disagreement between Ibn Az-Zubair and Ibn `Abbas, I said (to the latter), "(Why don't you take the oath of allegiance to him as) his father is Az-Zubair, and his mother is Asma,' and his aunt is `Aisha, and his maternal grandfather is Abu Bakr, and his grandmother is Safiya?
Hadith - 187
Narrated Ibn Abi Mulaika: There was a disagreement between them (i.e. Ibn `Abbas and Ibn Az-Zubair) so I went to Ibn `Abbas in the morning and said (to him), "Do you want to fight against Ibn Az-Zubair and thus make lawful what Allah has made unlawful (i.e. fighting in Mecca?" Ibn `Abbas said, "Allah forbid! Allah ordained that Ibn Az-Zubair and Bani Umaiya would permit (fighting in Mecca), but by Allah, I will never regard it as permissible." Ibn `Abbas added, "The people asked me to take the oath of allegiance to Ibn Az-Zubair. I said, 'He is really entitled to assume authority, for his father, Az-Zubair was the helper of the Prophet (ﷺ), his (maternal) grandfather, Abu Bakr was (the Prophet's) companion in the cave, his mother, Asma' was Dhatun-Nitaq, his aunt, `Aisha was the mother of the Believers, his paternal aunt, Khadija was the wife of the Prophet (ﷺ), and the paternal aunt of the Prophet (ﷺ) was his grandmother. He himself is pious and chaste in Islam, well versed in the Knowledge of the Qur'an. By Allah! (Really, I left my relatives, Bani Umaiya for his sake though) they are my close relatives, and if they should be my rulers, they are equally apt to be so and are descended from a noble family."
Hadith - 188
Narrated Ibn Abi Mulaika: We entered upon Ibn `Abbas and he said, "Are you not astonished at Ibn Az-Zubair's assuming the caliphate?" I said (to myself), "I will support him and speak of his good traits as I did not do even for Abu Bakr and `Umar though they were more entitled to receive all good than he was." I said, "He (i.e Ibn Az-Zubair) is the son of the aunt of the Prophet (ﷺ) and the son of Az-Zubair, and the grandson of Abu Bakr and the son of Khadija's brother, and the son of `Aisha's sister." Nevertheless, he considers himself to be superior to me and does not want me to be one of his friends. So I said, "I never expected that he would refuse my offer to support him, and I don't think he intends to do me any good, therefore, if my cousins should inevitably be my rulers, it will be better for me to be ruled by them than by some others."
Hadith - 189
Narrated Abu Sa`id: Something was sent to the Prophet (ﷺ) and he distributed it amongst four (men) and said, "I want to attract their hearts,(to Islam thereby)," A man said (to the Prophet (ﷺ)), "You have not done justice." Thereupon the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "There will emerge from the offspring of this (man) some people who will renounce the religion."
Hadith - 190
Narrated Abu Mas`ud: When we were ordered to give alms, we began to work as porters (to earn something we could give in charity). Abu `Aqil came with one half of a Sa` (special measure for food grains) and another person brought more than he did. So the hypocrites said, "Allah is not in need of the alms of this (i.e. Abu `Aqil); and this other person did not give alms but for showing off." Then Allah revealed: 'Those who criticize such of the Believers who give charity voluntarily and those who could not find to give in charity except what is available to them.' (Surah 9: Ayah 79)
Hadith - 191
Narrated Shaqiq: Abu Mas`ud Al-Ansari said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), used to order us to give alms. So one of us would exert himself to earn one Mud (special measure of wheat or dates, etc.,) to give in charity; while today one of us may have one hundred thousand." Shaqiq said: As if Abu Masud referred to himself.
Hadith - 192
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: When `Abdullah bin 'Ubai died, his son `Abdullah bin `Abdullah came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and asked him to give him his shirt in order to shroud his father in it. He gave it to him and then `Abdullah asked the Prophet (ﷺ) to offer the funeral prayer for him (his father). Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) got up to offer the funeral prayer for him, but `Umar got up too and got hold of the garment of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) Will you offer the funeral prayer for him though your Lord has forbidden you to offer the prayer for him" Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "But Allah has given me the choice by saying: '(Whether you) ask forgiveness for them, or do not ask forgiveness for them; even if you ask forgiveness for them seventy times..' (Surah 9 : Ayah 80) so I will ask more than seventy times." `Umar said, "But he (`Abdullah bin 'Ubai) is a hypocrite!" However, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) did offer the funeral prayer for him whereupon Allah revealed: 'And never (O Muhammad) pray for anyone of them that dies, nor stand at his grave.' (Surah 9: Ayah 84)
Hadith - 193
Narrated `Umar bin Al-Khattab: When `Abdullah bin Ubai bin Salul died, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was called in order to offer the funeral prayer for him. When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) got up (to offer the prayer) I jumped towards him and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Do you offer the prayer for Ibn Ubai although he said so-and-so on such-and-such a day?" I went on mentioning his sayings. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) smiled and said, "Keep away from me, O `Umar!" But when I spoke too much to him, he said, "I have been given the choice, and I have chosen (this) ; and if I knew that if I asked forgiveness for him more than seventy times, he would be for given, I would ask it for more times than that." So Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) offered the funeral prayer for him and then left, but he did not stay long before the two Verses of Surat-Bara'a were revealed, i.e.: 'And never (O Muhammad) pray for anyone of them that dies... and died in a state of rebellion.' (Surah 9 : Ayah 84). Later I was astonished at my daring to speak like that to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and Allah and His Apostle know best.
Hadith - 194
Narrated Ibn `Umar: When `Abdullah bin Ubai died, his son `Abdullah bin `Abdullah came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) who gave his shirt to him and ordered him to shroud his father in it. Then he stood up to offer the funeral prayer for the deceased, but `Umar bin Al-Khattab took hold of his garment and said, "Do you offer the funeral prayer for him though he was a hypocrite and Allah has forbidden you to ask forgiveness for hypocrites?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Allah has given me the choice (or Allah has informed me) saying: "Whether you, O Muhammad, ask forgiveness for them, or do not ask forgiveness for them, even if you ask forgiveness for them seventy times, Allah will not forgive them," (Surah 9 : Ayah 80) The he added, "I will (appeal to Allah for his sake) more than seventy times." So Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) offered the funeral prayer for him and we too, offered the prayer along with him. Then Allah revealed: "And never, O Muhammad, pray (funeral prayer) for anyone of them that dies, nor stand at his grave. Certainly they disbelieved in Allah and His Apostle and died in a state of rebellion." (Surah 9: Ayah 84)
Hadith - 195
Narrated `Abdullah bin Ka`b: I heard Ka`b bin Malik at the time he remained behind and did not join (the battle of) Tabuk, saying, "By Allah, no blessing has Allah bestowed upon me, besides my guidance to Islam, better than that of helping me speak the truth to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) otherwise I would have told the Prophet (ﷺ) a lie and would have been ruined like those who had told a lie when the Divine Inspiration was revealed: "They will swear by Allah to you (Muslims) when you return to them... the rebellious people." (Surah 9: Ayat 95-96)
Hadith - 196
Narrated Samura bin Jundab: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Tonight two (visitors) came to me (in my dream) and took me to a town built with gold bricks and silver bricks. There we met men who, half of their bodies, look like the most handsome human beings you have ever seen, and the other half, the ugliest human beings you have ever seen. Those two visitors said to those men, 'Go and dip yourselves in that river. So they dipped themselves therein and then came to us, their ugliness having disappeared and they were in the most handsome shape. The visitors said, 'The first is the Garden of Eden and that is your dwelling place.' Then they added, 'As for those people who were half ugly and half handsome, they were those who mixed good deeds and bad deeds, but Allah forgave them.'
Hadith - 197
Narrated Al-Musaiyab: When Abu Talib's death approached, the Prophet (ﷺ) went to him while Abu Jahl and `Abdullah bin Abi Umaiya were present with him. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O uncle, say: None has the right to be worshipped except Allah, so that I may argue for your case with it before Allah." On that, Abu Jahl and `Abdullah bin Abu Umaiya said, "O Abu Talib! Do you want to renounce `Abdul Muttalib's religion?" Then the Prophet said, "I will keep on asking (Allah for) forgiveness for you unless I am forbidden to do so." Then there was revealed: 'It is not fitting for the Prophet (ﷺ) and those who believe that they should invoke (Allah) for forgiveness for pagans even though they be of kin, after it has become clear to them that they are companions of the Fire.' (Surah 9: Ayah 113)
Hadith - 198
Narrated `Abdullah bin Ka`b: I heard Ka`b bin Malik talking about the Verse: 'And to the three (He also forgave) who remained behind.' (Surah 9 : Ayah 118) saying in the last portion of his talk, "(I said), 'As a part (sign) of my repentance, I would like to give up all my property in the cause of Allah and His Apostle,' The Prophet (ﷺ) said to me, "Keep some of your wealth as it is good for you."
Hadith - 199
Narrated `Abdullah bin Ka`b: I heard Ka`b bin Malik who was one of the three who were forgiven, saying that he had never remained behind Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) in any Ghazwa which he had fought except two Ghazwat: Ghazwat-Al-`Usra (Tabuk) and Ghazwat-Badr. He added, "I decided to tell the truth to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) in the forenoon, and scarcely did he return from a journey he made, except in the forenoon, he would go first to the mosque and offer a two-rak`at prayer. The Prophet (ﷺ) forbade others to speak to me or to my two companions, but he did not prohibit speaking to any of those who had remained behind excepting us. So the people avoided speaking to us, and I stayed in that state till I could no longer bear it, and the only thing that worried me was that I might die and the Prophet (ﷺ) would not offer the funeral prayer for me, or Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) might die and I would be left in that social status among the people that nobody would speak to me or offer the funeral prayer for me. But Allah revealed His Forgiveness for us to the Prophet (ﷺ) in the last third of the night while Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was with Um Salama. Um Salama sympathized with me and helped me in my disaster. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, 'O Um Salama! Ka`b has been forgiven!' She said, 'Shall I send someone to him to give him the good tidings?' He said, 'If you did so, the people would not let you sleep the rest of the night.' So when the Prophet (ﷺ) had offered the Fajr prayer, he announced Allah's Forgiveness for us. His face used to look as bright as a piece of the (full) moon whenever he was pleased. When Allah revealed His Forgiveness for us, we were the three whose case had been deferred while the excuse presented by those who had apologized had been accepted. But when there were mentioned those who had told the Prophet (ﷺ) lies and remained behind (the battle of Tabuk) and had given false excuses, they were described with the worse description one may be described with. Allah said: 'They will present their excuses to you (Muslims) when you return to them. Say: Present no excuses; we shall not believe you. Allah has already informed us of the true state of matters concerning you. Allah and His Apostle will observe your actions.
Hadith - 200
Narrated `Abdullah bin Ka`b: I heard Ka`b bin Malik talking about the story of the battle of Tabuk when he remained behind, "By Allah, I do not know anyone whom Allah has helped for telling the truth more than me since I mentioned that truth to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) till today, I have never intended to tell a lie. And Allah revealed to His Apostle: "Verily! Allah has forgiven the Prophet, the Muhajirin... and be with those who are true (in words and deeds)." (Surah 9: Ayat 117-119)
Hadith - 201
Narrated Zaid bin Thabit Al-Ansari: who was one of those who used to write the Divine Revelation: Abu Bakr sent for me after the (heavy) casualties among the warriors (of the battle) of Yamama (where a great number of Qurra' were killed). `Umar was present with Abu Bakr who said, `Umar has come to me and said, The people have suffered heavy casualties on the day of (the battle of) Yamama, and I am afraid that there will be more casualties among the Qurra' (those who know the Qur'an by heart) at other battle-fields, whereby a large part of the Qur'an may be lost, unless you collect it. And I am of the opinion that you should collect the Qur'an." Abu Bakr added, "I said to `Umar, 'How can I do something which Allah's Apostle has not done?' `Umar said (to me), 'By Allah, it is (really) a good thing.' So `Umar kept on pressing, trying to persuade me to accept his proposal, till Allah opened my bosom for it and I had the same opinion as `Umar." (Zaid bin Thabit added:) `Umar was sitting with him (Abu Bakr) and was not speaking me). "You are a wise young man and we do not suspect you (of telling lies or of forgetfulness): and you used to write the Divine Inspiration for Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). Therefore, look for the Qur'an and collect it (in one manuscript)." By Allah, if he (Abu Bakr) had ordered me to shift one of the mountains (from its place) it would not have been harder for me than what he had ordered me concerning the collection of the Qur'an. I said to both of them, "How dare you do a thing which the Prophet (ﷺ) has not done?" Abu Bakr said, "By Allah, it is (really) a good thing." So I kept on arguing with him about it till Allah opened my bosom for that which He had opened the bosoms of Abu Bakr and `Umar. So I started locating Qur'anic material and collecting it from parchments, scapula, leaf-stalks of date palms and from the memories of men (who knew it by heart). I found with Khuza`ima two Verses of Surat-at-Tauba which I had not found with anybody else, (and they were): "Verily, there has come to you an Apostle (Muhammad) from amongst yourselves. It grieves him that you should receive any injury or difficulty He (Muhammad) is ardently anxious over you (to be rightly guided)" (Surah 9 : Ayah 128). The manuscript on which the Qur'an was collected, remained with Abu Bakr till Allah took him unto Him, and then with `Umar till Allah took him unto Him, and finally it remained with Hafsa, `Umar's daughter.