Hadith - 246
Narrated `Ali: That one night Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) came to him and Fatima and said, "Don't you both offer the (Tahajjud) prayer?" `Ali said, "When Allah wishes us to get up, we get up."
The Prophet (ﷺ) then recited: "But man is more quarrelsome than anything." (Surah 18: Ayah 54)
Hadith - 247
Narrated Sa`id bin Jubair: I said to Ibn `Abbas, "Nauf Al-Bakali claims that Moses, the companion of Al-Khadir, was not the Moses of the children of Israel." Ibn `Abbas said, "The enemy of Allah (Nauf) told a lie."
Narrated Ubai bin Ka`b that he heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "Moses got up to deliver a speech before the children of Israel and he was asked, 'Who is the most learned person among the people?' Moses replied, 'I (am the most learned).'
Allah admonished him for he did not ascribe knowledge to Allah alone. So Allah revealed to him: 'At the junction of the two seas there is a slave of Ours who is more learned than you.' Moses asked, 'O my Lord, how can I meet him?'
Allah said, 'Take a fish and put it in a basket (and set out), and where you will lose the fish, you will find him.'
So Moses (took a fish and put it in a basket and) set out, along with his boy-servant Yusha` bin Noon, till they reached a rock (on which) they both lay their heads and slept.
The fish moved vigorously in the basket and got out of it and fell into the sea and there it took its way through the sea (straight) as in a tunnel (Surah 18: Ayah 61). Allah stopped the current of water on both sides of the way created by the fish, and so that way was like a tunnel.
When Moses got up, his companion forgot to tell him about the fish, and so they carried on their journey during the rest of the day and the whole night.
The next morning Moses asked his boy-servant, 'Bring us our early meal; no doubt, we have suffered much fatigue in this journey of ours.' (Surah 18: Ayah 62)
Moses did not get tired till he had passed the place which Allah had ordered him to seek after.
His boy-servant then said to him, 'Do you remember when we betook ourselves to the rock? I indeed forgot the fish, none but Satan made me forget to remember it. It took its course into the sea in a marvelous way.' (Surah 18: Ayah 63)
There was a tunnel for the fish and for Moses and his boy-servant there was astonishment. Moses said, 'That is what we have been seeking'. So they went back retracing their footsteps. (Surah 18: Ayah 64)
They both returned, retracing their steps till they reached the rock. Behold! There they found a man covered with a garment. Moses greeted him. Al-Khadir said astonishingly, 'Is there such a greeting in your land?' Moses said, 'I am Moses.'
He said, 'Are you the Moses of the children of Israel?' Moses said, 'I have come to you so that you may teach me of what you have been taught.'
Al-Khadir said, 'You will not be able to have patience with me (Surah 18: Ayah 66). O Moses! I have some of Allah's knowledge which He has bestowed upon me, but you do not know it; and you too, have some of Allah's knowledge which He has bestowed upon you, but I do not know it."
Moses said, "Allah willing, you will find me patient, and I will not disobey you in anything." (Surah 18: Ayah 6)
Al-Khadir said to him, 'If you then follow me, do not ask me about anything until I myself speak to you concerning it.' (Surah 18: Ayah 70)
After that both of them proceeded along the sea coast, till a boat passed by and they requested the crew to let them go on board. The crew recognized Al-Khadir and allowed them to get on board free of charge.
When they got on board, suddenly Moses saw that Al-Khadir had pulled out one of the planks of the boat with an adze. Moses said to him, 'These people gave us a free lift, yet you have scuttled their boat so as to drown its people! Truly, you have done a dreadful thing.' (Surah 18: Ayah 71)
Al-Khadir said, 'Didn't I say that you can have no patience with me?' (Surah 18: Ayah 72)
Moses said, 'Call me not to account for what I forgot and be not hard upon me for my affair (with you.)' (Surah 18: Ayah 73)
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The first excuse given by Moses was that he had forgotten.
Then a sparrow came and sat over the edge of the boat and dipped its beak once in the sea. Al-Khadir said to Moses, 'My knowledge and your knowledge compared to Allah's knowledge is like what this sparrow has taken out of the sea.'
Then they both got out of the boat, and while they were walking on the sea shore, Al-Khadir saw a boy playing with other boys. Al-Khadir got hold of the head of that boy and pulled it out with his hands and killed him.
Moses said, 'Have you killed an innocent soul who has killed nobody! Truly, you have done an illegal thing' (Surah 18: Ayah 74)
He said, 'Didn't I tell you that you can have no patience with me?' (Surah 18: Ayah 75). (The sub narrator said: The second blame was stronger than the first one.)
Moses said, 'If I ask you about anything after this, keep me not in your company, you have received an excuse from me.' (Surah 18: Ayah 76)
Then they both proceeded until they came to the inhabitants of a town. They asked them for food but they refused to entertain them. (In that town) they found there a wall on the point of falling down. (Surah 18: Ayah 77)
Al-Khadir set it up straight with his own hands. Moses said, 'These are people to whom we came, but they neither fed us nor received us as guests. If you had wished, you could surely have taken some recompense for it.'
Al-Khadir said, 'This is the parting between me and you ... that is the interpretation of (those things) over which you were unable to hold patience.' (Surah 18: Ayat 78-82)
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "We wished that Moses could have been more patient so that Allah might have described to us more about their story."
Hadith - 248
Narrated Ibn Juraij: Ya`la bin Muslim and `Amr bin Dinar and some others narrated the narration of Sa`id bin Jubair.
Narrated Sa`id: While we were at the house of Ibn `Abbas, Ibn `Abbas said, "Ask me (any question)."
I said, "O Abu `Abbas! May Allah let me be sacrificed for you! There is a man at Kufa who is a storyteller called Nauf; who claims that he (Al-Khadir's companion) is not Moses of Bani Israel."
As for `Amr, he said to me, "Ibn `Abbas said, '(Nauf) the enemy of Allah told a lie.' But Ya`la said to me, 'Ibn `Abbas said, "Ubai bin Ka`b said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, 'Once Moses, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), preached to the people till their eyes shed tears and their hearts became tender, whereupon he finished his sermon.
Then a man came to Moses and asked, 'O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Is there anyone on the earth who is more learned than you?' Moses replied, 'No.'
So Allah admonished him (Moses), for he did not ascribe all knowledge to Allah. It was said, (on behalf of Allah), 'Yes, (there is a slave of ours who knows more than you).' Moses said, 'O my Lord! Where is he?'
Allah said, 'At the junction of the two seas.' Moses said, 'O my Lord ! Tell me of a sign whereby I will recognize the place.'"
`Amr said to me, "Allah said, 'That place will be where the fish will leave you.' Ya`la said to me, "Allah said (to Moses), 'Take a dead fish (and your goal will be) the place where it will become alive."'
So Moses took a fish and put it in a basket and said to his boy-servant, "I don't want to trouble you, except that you should inform me as soon as this fish leaves you." He said (to Moses), "You have not demanded too much."
And that is as mentioned by Allah: 'And (remember) when Moses said to his attendant... ' (Surah 18: Ayah 60) Yusha` bin Noon. (Sa`id did not state that).
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "While the attendant was in the shade of the rock at a wet place, the fish slipped out (alive) while Moses was sleeping. His attendant said (to himself), "I will not wake him," but when he woke up, he forgot to tell him the fish slipped out and entered the sea.
Allah stopped the flow of the sea where the fish was, so that its trace looked as if it was made on a rock." `Amr forming a hole with his two thumbs and index fingers, said to me, "Like this, as in its trace was made on a rock."
Moses said, "We have suffered much fatigue on this journey of ours." (This was not narrated by Sa`id).
Then they returned back and found Al-Khadir. `Uthman bin Abi Sulaiman said to me, "(They found him) on a green carpet in the middle of the sea." Al-Khadir was covered with his garment with one end under his feet and the other end under his head.
When Moses greeted, he uncovered his face and said astonishingly, 'Is there such a greeting in my land? Who are you?' Moses said, 'I am Moses.' Al-Khadir said, 'Are you the Moses of Bani Israel?' Moses said, 'Yes.'
Al-Khadir said, 'What do you want?' Moses said, 'I came to you so that you may teach me of the truth which you were taught.'
Al-Khadir said, 'Is it not sufficient for you that the Torah is in your hands and the Divine Inspiration comes to you, O Moses? Verily, I have a knowledge that you ought not learn, and you have a knowledge which I ought not learn.'
At that time, a bird took with its beak (some water) from the sea. Al-Khadir then said, 'By Allah, my knowledge and your knowledge besides Allah's Knowledge is like what this bird has taken with its beak from the sea.'
Until when they went on board the boat (Surah 18: Ayah 71). They found a small boat which used to carry the people from this sea-side to the other sea-side. The crew recognized Al-Khadir and said, 'The pious slave of Allah.' (We said to Sa`id, "Was that Khadir?" He said, "Yes.")
The boat-men said, 'We will not get him on board with fare.' Al-Khadir scuttled the boat and then plugged the hole with a piece of wood.
Moses said, 'Have you scuttled it in order to drown these people? Surely, you have done a dreadful thing' (Surah 18: Ayah 71). (Mujahid said, "Moses said so protestingly.") Al-Khadir said, 'Didn't I say that you can have no patience with me?' (Surah 18: Ayah 72)
The first inquiry of Moses was done because of forgetfulness, the second caused him to be bound with a stipulation, and the third was done intentionally.
Moses said, 'Call me not to account for what I forgot and be not hard upon me for my affair (with you).' (Surah 18: Ayah 73).
(Then) they found a boy and Al-Khadir killed him. Ya`la said: Sa`id said, 'They found boys playing and Al-Khadir got hold of a handsome infidel boy, laid him down and then slew him with knife.
Moses said, 'Have you killed a innocent soul who has killed nobody?' (Surah 18: Ayah 74)
Then they proceeded and found a wall which was on the point of falling down, and Al-Khadir set it up straight. Sa`id moved his hand thus and said, "Al-Khadir raised his hand and the wall became straight." Ya`la said, 'I think Sa`id said, "Al-Khadir touched the wall with his hand and it became straight."'
(Moses said to Al-Khadir), 'If you had wished, you could have taken wages for it.' Sa`id said, 'Wages that we might had eaten.'
"And there was a king in furor (ahead) of them" (Surah 18: Ayah 79). And there was in front of them. Ibn `Abbas recited: 'In front of them (was) a king.'
It is said on the authority of somebody other than Sa`id that the king was Hudad bin Budad. They say that the boy was called Jaisur.
'A king who seized every ship by force,' (Surah 18: Ayah 79). So I wished that if that boat passed by him, he would leave it because of its defect and when they have passed they would repair it and get benefit from it. Some people said that they closed that hole with a bottle, and some said with tar.
'His parents were believers, and he (the boy) was a non-believer and we (Khadir) feared lest he would oppress them by obstinate rebellion and disbelief,' (Surah 18: Ayah 80) (i.e. that their love for him would urge them to follow him in his religion), 'so we (Khadir) desired that their Lord should change him for them for one better in righteousness and near to mercy' (Surah 18: Ayah 81).
This was in reply to Moses' saying: 'Have you killed an innocent soul?' (Surah 18: Ayah 74). 'Near to mercy' means they will be more merciful to him than they were to the former whom Khadir had killed. Other than Sa`id said that they were compensated with a girl.
Dawud bin Abi `Asim said on the authority of more than one that this next child was a girl.
Hadith - 249
Narrated Sa`id bin Jubair: I said to Ibn `Abbas, "Nauf-al-Bakali claims that Moses of Bani Israel was not Moses, the companion of Al-Khadir." Ibn `Abbas said, "Allah's enemy tells a lie!
Ubai bin Ka`b narrated to us that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Moses got up to deliver a sermon before Bani Israel and he was asked, 'Who is the most learned person among the people?' Moses replied, 'I (am the most learned).'
Allah then admonished Moses for he did not ascribe all knowledge to Allah only. (Then) came the Divine Inspiration: 'Yes, one of Our slaves at the junction of the two seas is more learned than you.' Moses said, 'O my Lord! How can I meet him?'
Allah said, 'Take a fish in a basket and wherever the fish is lost, follow it (you will find him at that place).'
So Moses set out along with his attendant Yusha` bin Noon, and they carried with them a fish till they reached a rock and rested there. Moses put his head down and slept.
(Sufyan, a sub-narrator said that somebody other than `Amr said,) 'At the rock there was a water spring called Al-Hayat and none came in touch with its water but became alive. So some of the water of that spring fell over that fish, so it moved and slipped out of the basket and entered the sea.
When Moses woke up, he asked his attendant, 'Bring our early meal' (Surah 18: Ayah 62). The narrator added: Moses did not suffer from fatigue except after he had passed the place he had been ordered to observe.
His attendant Yusha` bin Noon said to him, 'Do you remember (what happened) when we betook ourselves to the rock? I did indeed forget (about) the fish ...' (Surah 18: Ayah 63)
The narrator added: So they came back, retracing their steps and then they found in the sea the way of the fish looking like a tunnel. So there was an astonishing event for his attendant, and there was tunnel for the fish.
When they reached the rock, they found a man covered with a garment. Moses greeted him. The man said astonishingly, 'Is there any such greeting in your land?' Moses said, 'I am Moses.' The man said, 'Moses of Bani Israel?'
Moses said, 'Yes,' and added, 'may I follow you so that you teach me something of the Knowledge which you have been taught?' (Surah 18: Ayah 66).
Al-Khadir said to him, 'O Moses! You have something of Allah's knowledge which Allah has taught you and which I do not know; and I have something of Allah's knowledge which Allah has taught me and which you do not know.'
Moses said, 'But I will follow you.' Al-Khadir said, 'Then if you follow me, ask me no question about anything until I myself speak to you concerning it.' (Surah 18: Ayah 70).
After that, both of them proceeded along the seashore. There passed by them a boat whose crew recognized Al-Khadir and received them on board free of charge. So they both got on board.
A sparrow came and sat on the edge of the boat and dipped its beak unto the sea. Al-Khadir said to Moses, 'My knowledge and your knowledge and all the creation's knowledge compared to Allah's knowledge is not more than the water taken by this sparrow's beak.'
Then Moses was startled by Al-Khadir's action of taking an adze and scuttling the boat with it. Moses said to him, 'These people gave us a free lift, but you intentionally scuttled their boat so as to drown them. Surely you have...' (Surah 18: Ayah 71)
Then they both proceeded and found a boy playing with other boys. Al-Khadir took hold of him by the head and cut it off. Moses said to him, 'Have you killed an innocent soul who has killed nobody? Surely you have done an illegal thing!' (Surah 18: Ayah 74)
He said, "Didn't I tell you that you will not be able to have patient with me?" up to ... 'but they refused to entertain them as their guests. There they found a wall therein at the point of collapsing.' (Surah 18: Ayat 75-77)
Al-Khadir moved his hand thus and set it upright (repaired it). Moses said to him, 'When we entered this town, they neither gave us hospitality nor fed us; if you had wished, you could have taken wages for it,'
Al-Khadir said, 'This is the parting between you and me I will tell you the interpretation of (those things) about which you were unable to hold patience.'...(Surah 18: Ayah 78)
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, 'We wished that Moses could have been more patient so that He (Allah) could have described to us more about their story.'
Ibn `Abbas used to recite: 'And in front (ahead) of them there was a king who used to seize every (serviceable) boat by force. (Surah 18: Ayah 79) ... and as for the boy he was a disbeliever.
Hadith - 250
Narrated Mus`ab: I asked my father, "Was the Verse: 'Say: (O Muhammad) Shall We tell you the greatest losers in respect of their deeds?' (Surah 18: Ayah 103) revealed regarding Al-Haruriyya?"
He said, 'No, but regarding the Jews and the Christians, for the Jews disbelieved Muhammad and the Christians disbelieved in Paradise and say that there are neither meals nor drinks therein.
Al-Haruriyya are those people who break their pledge to Allah after they have confirmed that they will fulfill it, and Sa`d used to call them "Al-Fasiqin" (evildoers who forsake Allah's obedience).'
Hadith - 251
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "On the Day of Resurrection, a huge fat man will come who will not weigh the weight of the wing of a mosquito in Allah's Sight."
And then the Prophet (ﷺ) added, 'We shall not give them any weight on the Day of Resurrection.' (Surah 18: Ayah 105)
Hadith - 252
Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "On the Day of Resurrection, Death will be brought forward in the shape of a black and white ram.
Then a call maker will call, 'O people of Paradise!' Thereupon they will stretch their necks and look carefully. The caller will say, 'Do you know this?' They will say, 'Yes, this is Death.' By then all of them will have seen it.
Then it will be announced again, 'O people of Hell!' They will stretch their necks and look carefully. The caller will say, 'Do you know this?' They will say, 'Yes, this is Death.' And by then all of them will have seen it.
Then it (that ram) will be slaughtered and the caller will say, 'O people of Paradise! Eternity for you and no death. O people of Hell! Eternity for you and no death."'
Then the Prophet (ﷺ) recited: 'And warn them of the Day of distress when the case has been decided, while (now) they are in a state of carelessness (i.e. the people of the world) and they do not believe.' (Surah 19: Ayah 39)
Hadith - 253
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: The Prophet (ﷺ) said to Gabriel, "What prevents you from visiting us more often than you visit us now?" So there was revealed: "And we (angels) descend not but by the command of your Lord. To Him belongs what is before us and what is behind us." (Surah 19: Ayah 64)
Hadith - 254
Narrated Khabbab: I came to Al-`Asi bin Wa'il As-Sahmi and demanded something which he owed me. He said, "I will not give you (your money) till you disbelieve in Muhammad."
I said, "No, I shall not disbelieve in Muhammad till you die and then be resurrected." He said, "Will I die and then be resurrected?" I said, "Yes." He said, "Then I will have wealth and children there, and I will pay you (there)."
So this Verse was revealed: 'Have you then seen him who disbelieved in Our Signs and (yet) says: I shall certainly be given wealth and children?' (Surah 19: Ayah 77)
Hadith - 255
Narrated Khabbab: I was a blacksmith in Mecca. Once I made a sword for Al-`Asi bin Wa'il As-Sahmi. When I went to demand its price, he said, "I will not give it to you till you disbelieve in Muhammad."
I said, "I shall not disbelieve in Muhammad till Allah makes you die and then bring you to life again." He said, "If Allah should make me die and then resurrect me, I would have wealth and children."
So Allah revealed: 'Have you seen him who disbelieved in Our Signs, and (yet) says I shall certainly be given wealth and children? Has he known the unseen or has he taken a covenant from (Allah) the Beneficent?' (Surah 19: Ayat 77-78)
Hadith - 256
Narrated Masruq: Khabbab said, "During the pre-Islamic period, I was a blacksmith and Al-Asi bin Wa'il owed me a debt." So Khabbab went to him to demand the debt. He said, "I will not give you (your due) till you disbelieve in Muhammad."
Khabbab said, "By Allah, I shall not disbelieve in Muhammad till Allah makes you die and then resurrects you." Al-Asi said, "So leave me till I die and then be resurrected, for I will be given wealth and children, whereupon I will pay you your debt."
So this Verse was revealed: 'Have you seen him who disbelieved in Our Signs and, (yet) says: "I shall certainly be given wealth and children."' (Surah 19: Ayah 77)
Hadith - 257
Narrated Khabbab: I was a blacksmith and Al-Asi Bin Wa'il owed me a debt, so I went to him to demand it. He said to me. "I will not pay you your debt till you disbelieve in Muhammad."
I said, "I will not disbelieve in Muhammad till you die and then be resurrected." He said, "Will I be resurrected after my death? If so, I shall pay you (there) if I should find wealth and children."
So there was revealed: 'Have you seen him who disbelieved in Our Signs, and yet says: "I shall certainly be given wealth and children?" Has he known to the unseen or has he taken a covenant from (Allah) the Beneficent?
Nay! We shall record what he says, and we shall add and add to his punishment. And We shall inherit from him all that he talks of, and he shall appear before Us alone.' (Surah 19: Ayat 77-80)
Hadith - 258
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Adam and Moses met, and Moses said to Adam, 'You are the one who made people miserable and turned them out of Paradise.'
Adam said to him, "You are the one whom Allah selected for His message and whom He selected for Himself and upon whom He revealed the Torah." Moses said, 'Yes.'
Adam said, "Did you find that written in my fate before my creation?" Moses said, 'Yes.' So Adam overcame Moses with this argument.
Hadith - 259
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) arrived at Medina, he found the Jews observing the fast on the day of 'Ashura' (10th of Muharram). The Prophet (ﷺ) asked them (about it) and they replied, "This is the day when Moses became victorious over Pharaoh."
The Prophet (ﷺ) said (to the Muslims), "We are nearer to Moses than they, so fast on this day."
Hadith - 260
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Moses argued with Adam and said to him (Adam), "You are the one who got the people out of Paradise by your sin, and thus made them miserable."
Adam replied, 'O Moses! You are the one whom Allah selected for His Message and for His direct talk. Yet you blame me for a thing which Allah had ordained for me before He created me?' Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) further said, "So Adam overcame Moses by this argument."
Hadith - 261
Narrated `Abdullah: The Suras of Bani Israel, Al-Kahf, Maryam, Taha and Al-Anbiya are from the very old Suras which I learnt by heart, and they are my first property.
Hadith - 262
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: The Prophet (ﷺ) delivered a sermon and said, "You (people) will be gathered before Allah (on the Day of Resurrection) bare-footed, naked and uncircumcised."
(The Prophet (ﷺ) then recited): 'As We began the first creation We shall repeat it. (It is) a promise We have undertaken and truly We shall do it,' and added, "The first man who will be dressed on the Day of Resurrection will be Abraham.
Lo! Some men from my followers will be brought and taken towards the left side, whereupon I will say, 'O Lord, (these are) my companions!' It will be said, 'You do not know what new things they introduced (into the religion) after you.'
I will then say as the righteous pious slave, Jesus, said, 'I was a witness over them while I dwelt among them...(to His Statement)..and You are the Witness to all things.' (Surah 5: Ayah 117)
Then it will be said, '(O Muhammad) These people never stopped to apostate since you left them.'
Hadith - 263
Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "On the day of Resurrection, Allah will say, 'O Adam!' Adam will reply, 'Labbaik our Lord, and Sa`daik.'
Then there will be a loud call (saying), "Allah orders you to take from among your offspring a mission for the (Hell) Fire." Adam will say, "O Lord! Who are the mission for the (Hell) Fire?"
Allah will say, 'Out of each thousand, take out 999.' At that time, every pregnant female shall drop her load (have a miscarriage) and a child will have grey hair. And you shall see mankind as in a drunken state, yet not drunk, but severe will be the torment of Allah." (Surah 22: Ayah 2)
(When the Prophet (ﷺ) mentioned this), the people were so distressed (and afraid) that their faces got changed (in color) whereupon the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "From Gog and Magog nine-hundred ninety-nine will be taken out and one from you.
You Muslims (compared to the large number of other people) will be like a black hair on the side of a white ox, or a white hair on the side of a black ox, and I hope that you will be one-fourth of the people of Paradise." On that, we said, "Allahu-Akbar!"
Then he said, "I hope that you will be one-third of the people of Paradise." We again said, "Allahu-Akbar!"
Then he said, "(I hope that you will be) one-half of the people of Paradise." So we said, "Allahu Akbar."
Hadith - 264
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: Regarding the Verse: "And among men is he who worships Allah's as it were on the very edge" (Surah 22: Ayah 11). A man used to come to Medina, and if his wife brought a son and his mares produces offspring, he would say, "This religion (Islam) is good."
But if his wife did not give birth to a child and his mares produced no offspring, he would say, "This religion is bad."
Hadith - 265
Narrated Qais bin Ubad: Abu Dharr used to take an oath confirming that the Verse: 'These two opponents (believers, and disbelievers) dispute with each other about their Lord,' (Surah 22: Ayah 19) was Revealed in connection with Hamza and his two companions and `Utbah and his two companions on the day when they went out to the battle of Badr.
Hadith - 266
Narrated Qais bin Ubad: `Ali said, "I will be the first to kneel before the Beneficent on the Day of Resurrection because of the dispute."
Qais said, "This Verse: 'These two opponents (believers and disbelievers) dispute with each other about their Lord,' (Surah 22: Ayah 19) was revealed in connection with those who came out for the Battle of Badr, i.e. `Ali, Hamza, 'Ubaida, Shaiba bin Rabi`a, `Utba bin Rabi`a and Al-Walid bin `Utba."