Hadith - 267
Narrated Sahl bin Sa`d: 'Uwaimir came to `Asim bin `Adi who was the chief of Bani Ajlan and said, "What do you say about a man who has found another man with his wife? Should he kill him, whereupon you would kill him (i.e. the husband), or what should he do? Please ask Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) about this matter on my behalf."
`Asim then went to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)!" (And asked him that question) but Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) disliked the question."
When 'Uwaimir asked `Asim (about the Prophet's answer) `Asim replied that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) disliked such questions and considered it shameful.
'Uwaimir then said, "By Allah, I will not give up asking unless I ask Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) about it."
'Uwaimir came (to the Prophet (ﷺ)) and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! A man has found another man with his wife! Should he kill him, whereupon you would kill him (the husband, in Qisas) or what should he do?"
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Allah has revealed regarding you and your wife's case in the Qur'an." So Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) ordered them to perform the measures of Mula'ana according to what Allah had mentioned in His Book.
So 'Uwaimir did Mula'ana with her and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! If I kept her, I would oppress her." So 'Uwaimir divorced her, and so divorce became a tradition after them for those who happened to be involved in a case of Mula'ana.
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) then said, "Look! If she (Uwaimir's wife) delivers a black child with deep black large eyes, big hips and fat legs, then I will be of the opinion that 'Uwaimir has spoken the truth; but if she delivers a red child looking like a Wahra then we will consider that 'Uwaimir has told a lie against her."
Later on, she delivered a child carrying the qualities which Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had mentioned as a proof for 'Uwaimir's claim; therefore the child was ascribed to its mother henceforth.
Hadith - 268
Narrated Sahl bin Sa`d: A man came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Suppose a man saw another man with his wife, should he kill him, whereupon you might kill him (i.e. the killer) (in Qisas) or what should he do?"
So Allah revealed concerning their case what is mentioned of the order of Mula'ana. Allah's Apostle said to the man, "The matter between you and your wife has been decided."
So they did Mula'ana in the presence of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and I was present there, and then the man divorced his wife. So it became a tradition to dissolve the marriage of those spouses who were involved in a case of Mula'ana.
The woman was pregnant and the husband denied that he was the cause of her pregnancy, so the son was (later) ascribed to her. Then it became a tradition that such a son would be the heir of his mother, and she would inherit of him what Allah prescribed for her.
Hadith - 269
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: Hilal bin Umaiya accused his wife of committing illegal sexual intercourse with Sharik bin Sahma' and filed the case before the Prophet (ﷺ).
The Prophet (ﷺ) said (to Hilal), "Either you bring forth a proof (four witnesses) or you will receive the legal punishment (lashes) on your back."
Hilal said, "O Allah's Apostle! If anyone of us saw a man over his wife, would he go to seek after witnesses?" The Prophet (ﷺ) kept on saying, "Either you bring forth the witnesses or you will receive the legal punishment (lashes) on your back."
Hilal then said, "By Him Who sent you with the Truth, I am telling the truth and Allah will reveal to you what will save my back from legal punishment."
Then Gabriel came down and revealed to him: 'As for those who accuse their wives...' (Surah 24: Ayat 6-9) The Prophet (ﷺ) recited it till he reached: '... (her accuser) is telling the truth.'
Then the Prophet (ﷺ) left and sent for the woman, and Hilal went (and brought) her and then took the oaths (confirming the claim). The Prophet (ﷺ) was saying, "Allah knows that one of you is a liar, so will any of you repent?"
Then the woman got up and took the oaths and when she was going to take the fifth one, the people stopped her and said, "It (the fifth oath) will definitely bring Allah's curse on you (if you are guilty)."
So she hesitated and recoiled (from taking the oath) so much that we thought that she would withdraw her denial. But then she said, "I will not dishonor my family all through these days," and carried on (the process of taking oaths).
The Prophet (ﷺ) then said, "Watch her; if she delivers a black-eyed child with big hips and fat shins then it is Sharik bin Sahma's child." Later, she delivered a child of that description.
So the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If the case was not settled by Allah's Law, I would punish her severely."
Hadith - 270
Narrated Ibn `Umar: A man accused his wife of illegal sexual intercourse and denied his paternity to her (conceived) child during the lifetime of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ).
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) ordered them both to do Mula'ana as Allah decreed, and then gave his decision that the child would be for the mother, and a divorce decree was issued for the couple involved in a case of Mula'ana.
Hadith - 271
Narrated `Aisha: And as for him among them who had the greater share..' (Surah 24: Ayah 11) was `Abdullah bin Ubai bin Salul.
Hadith - 272
Narrated Aisha (the wife of the Prophet): Whenever Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) intended to go on a journey, he used to draw lots among his wives and would take with him the one on whom the lot had fallen.
Once he drew lots when he wanted to carry out a Ghazwa, and the lot came upon me. So I proceeded with Allah's Apostle after Allah's order of veiling (the women) had been revealed and thus I was carried in my howdah (on a camel) and dismounted while still in it.
We carried on our journey, and when Allah's Apostle had finished his Ghazwa and returned and we approached Medina, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) ordered to proceed at night.
When the army was ordered to resume the homeward journey, I got up and walked on till I left the army (camp) behind.
When I had answered the call of nature, I went towards my howdah, but behold! A necklace of mine made of Jaz' Azfar (a kind of black bead) was broken and I looked for it and my search for it detained me.
The group of people who used to carry me, came and carried my howdah on to the back of my camel on which I was riding, considering that I was therein.
At that time women were light in weight and were not fleshy for they used to eat little (food), so those people did not feel the lightness of the howdah while raising it up, and I was still a young lady. They drove away the camel and proceeded.
Then I found my necklace after the army had gone. I came to their camp but found nobody therein, so I went to the place where I used to stay, thinking that they would miss me and come back in my search.
While I was sitting at my place, I felt sleepy and slept. Safwan bin Al-Mu'attal As-Sulami Adh-Dhakwani was behind the army. He had started in the last part of the night and reached my stationing place in the morning and saw the figure of a sleeping person.
He came to me and recognized me on seeing me for he used to see me before veiling. I got up because of his saying (what means): "To Allah we belong, and to Him we will return," which he uttered on recognizing me.
I covered my face with my garment, and by Allah, he did not say to me a single word except, "To Allah we belong, and to Him we will return," till he made his she-camel kneel down, whereupon he trod on its forelegs and I mounted it.
Then Safwan set out, leading the she-camel that was carrying me, till we met the army while they were resting during the hot midday. Then whoever was meant for destruction fell in destruction, and the leader of the Ifk (forged statement) was `Abdullah bin Ubai bin Salul.
After this we arrived at Medina and I became ill for one month while the people were spreading the forged statements of the people of the Ifk, and I was not aware of anything thereof.
But what aroused my doubt while I was sick, was that I was no longer receiving from Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) the same kindness as I used to receive when I fell sick. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) would enter upon me, say a greeting and add, "How is that (lady)?" and then depart.
That aroused my suspicion but I was not aware of the propagated evil till I recovered from my ailment.
I went out with Um Mistah to answer the call of nature towards Al-Manasi, the place where we used to relieve ourselves, and used not to go out for this purpose except from night to night, and that was before we had lavatories close to our houses.
And this habit of ours was similar to the habit of the old 'Arabs (in the deserts or in the tents) concerning the evacuation of the bowels, for we considered it troublesome and harmful to take lavatories in the houses.
So I went out with Um Mistah who was the daughter of Abi Ruhm bin `Abd Manaf, and her mother was daughter of Sakhr bin Amir who was the aunt of Abi Bakr As-Siddiq, and her son was Mistah bin Uthatha.
When we had finished our affair, Um Mistah and I came back towards my house. Um Mistah stumbled over her robe, whereupon she said, "Let Mistah be ruined!" I said to her, "What a bad word you have said! Do you abuse a man who has taken part in the Battle of Badr?"
She said, "O you there! Didn't you hear what he has said?" I said, "And what did he say?" She then told me the statement of the people of the Ifk (forged statement) which added to my ailment.
When I returned home, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) came to me, and after greeting, he said, "How is that (lady)?" I said, "Will you allow me to go to my parents?" At that time, I intended to be sure of the news through them.
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) allowed me, and I went to my parents and asked my mother, "O my mother! What are the people talking about?"
My mother said, "O my daughter! Take it easy, for by Allah, there is no charming lady who is loved by her husband who has other wives as well, but that those wives would find fault with her."
I said, "Subhan Allah! Did the people really talk about that?" That night I kept on weeping the whole night till the morning. My tears never stopped, nor did I sleep, and morning broke while I was still weeping.
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) called `Ali bin Abi Talib and Usama bin Zaid when the Divine Inspiration delayed, in order to consult them as to the idea of divorcing his wife.
Usama bin Zaid told Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) of what he knew about the innocence of his wife and of his affection he kept for her. He said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! She is your wife, and we do not know anything about her except good."
But `Ali bin Abi Talib said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Allah does not impose restrictions on you; and there are plenty of women other than her. If you however ask (her) slave girl, she will tell you the truth."
`Aisha added: So Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) called for Barira and said, "O Barira! Did you ever see anything which might have aroused your suspicion (as regards Aisha)?"
Barira said, "By Allah Who has sent you with the truth, I have never seen anything regarding Aisha which I would blame her for, except that she is a girl of immature age who sometimes sleeps and leaves the dough of her family unprotected so that the domestic goats come and eat it."
So Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) got up (and addressed) the people and asked for somebody who would take revenge on `Abdullah bin Ubai bin Salul then.
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), while on the pulpit, said, "O Muslims! Who will help me against a man who has hurt me by slandering my family? By Allah, I know nothing except good about my family, and people have blamed a man of whom I know nothing except good, and he never used to visit my family except with me."
Sa`d bin Mu`adh Al-Ansari got up and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! By Allah, I will relieve you from him. If he be from the tribe of (Bani) Al-Aus, then I will chop his head off; and if he be from our brethren, the Khazraj, then you give us your order and we will obey it."
On that, Sa`d bin 'Ubada got up, and he was the chief of the Khazraj, and before this incident he had been a pious man but he was incited by his zeal for his tribe. He said to Sa`d (bin Mu`adh), "By Allah the Eternal, you have told a lie! You shall not kill him, and you will never be able to kill him!"
On that, Usaid bin Hudair, the cousin of Sa`d (bin Mu`adh) got up and said to Sa`d bin 'Ubada, "You are a liar! By Allah the Eternal, we will surely kill him; and you are a hypocrite defending the hypocrites!"
So the two tribes of Al-Aus and Al-Khazraj got excited till they were on the point of fighting with each other, while Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was standing on the pulpit. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) continued quietening them till they became silent, whereupon he became silent too.
On that day, I kept on weeping so much that neither did my tears stop, nor could I sleep. In the morning my parents were with me, and I had wept for two nights and a day without sleeping and with incessant tears till they thought that my liver would burst with weeping.
While they were with me and I was weeping, an Ansari woman asked permission to see me. I admitted her and she sat and started weeping with me.
While I was in that state, Allah's Apostle came to us, greeted, and sat down, He had never sat with me since the day what was said, was said. He had stayed a month without receiving any Divine Inspiration concerning my case.
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) recited the Tashahhud after he had sat down, and then said, "Thereafter, O `Aisha! I have been informed such-and-such a thing about you; and if you are innocent, Allah will reveal your innocence, and if you have committed a sin, then ask for Allah's forgiveness and repent to Him, for when a slave confesses his sin and then repents to Allah, Allah accepts his repentance."
When Allah's Apostle had finished his speech, my tears ceased completely so that I no longer felt even a drop thereof. Then I said to my father, "Reply to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) on my behalf as to what he said." He said, "By Allah, I do not know what to say to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)."
Then I said to my mother, "Reply to Allah's Apostle." She said, "I do not know what to say to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)."
Still a young girl as I was and though I had little knowledge of Qur'an, I said, "By Allah, I know that you heard this story (of the Ifk) so-much-so that it has been planted in your minds and you have believed it.
So now, if I tell you that I am innocent, and Allah knows that I am innocent, you will not believe me; and if I confess something, and Allah knows that I am innocent of it, you will believe me.
By Allah, I cannot find of you an example except that of Joseph's father: 'So (for me) patience is most fitting against that which you assert and it is Allah (Alone) Whose help can be sought.'"
Then I turned away and lay on my bed, and at that time I knew that I was innocent and that Allah would reveal my innocence.
But by Allah, I never thought that Allah would sent down about my affair Divine Inspiration that would be recited (forever), as I considered myself too unworthy to be talked of by Allah with something that was to be recited: but I hoped that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) might have a vision in which Allah would prove my innocence.
By Allah, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had not left his seat and nobody had left the house when the Divine Inspiration came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ).
So there overtook him the same hard condition which used to overtake him (when he was Divinely Inspired) so that the drops of his sweat were running down, like pearls, though it was a (cold) winter day, and that was because of the heaviness of the Statement which was revealed to him.
When that state of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was over, and he was smiling when he was relieved, the first word he said was, "Aisha, Allah has declared your innocence."
My mother said to me, "Get up and go to him." I said, "By Allah, I will not go to him and I will not thank anybody but Allah."
So Allah revealed: "Verily! They who spread the Slander are a gang among you. Think it not...." (Surah 24: Ayat 11-20).
When Allah revealed this to confirm my innocence, Abu Bakr As-Siddiq who used to provide for Mistah bin Uthatha because of the latter's kinship to him and his poverty, said, "By Allah, I will never provide for Mistah anything after what he has said about Aisha".
So Allah revealed: "Let not those among you who are good and are wealthy swear not to give (help) to their kinsmen, those in need, and those who have left their homes for Allah's Cause. Let them Pardon and forgive (i.e. do not punish them). Do you not love that should forgive you? Verily Allah is Oft-forgiving. Most Merciful." (Surah 24: Ayah 22)
Abu Bakr said, "Yes, by Allah, I wish that Allah should forgive me." So he resumed giving Mistah the aid he used to give him before and said, "By Allah, I will never withhold it from him at all."
Aisha further said: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) also asked Zainab bint Jahsh about my case. He said, "O Zainab! What have you seen?" She replied, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! I protect my hearing and my sight (by refraining from telling lies). I know nothing but good (about Aisha)."
Of all the wives of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), it was Zainab who aspired to receive from him the same favor as I used to receive, yet, Allah saved her (from telling lies) because of her piety.
But her sister, Hamna, kept on fighting on her behalf so she was destroyed as were those who invented and spread the slander.
Hadith - 273
Narrated Um Ruman: Aisha's mother, "When `Aisha was accused, she fell down unconscious."
Hadith - 274
Narrated Ibn Abi Mulaika: I heard `Aisha reciting: "When you invented a lie (and carry it) on your tongues." (Surah 24: Ayah 15)
Hadith - 275
Narrated Ibn Abu Mulaika: Ibn `Abbas asked permission to visit Aisha before her death, and at that time she was in a state of agony. She then said, "I am afraid that he will praise me too much."
And then it was said to her, "He is the cousin of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and one of the prominent Muslims." Then she said, "Allow him to enter." (When he entered) he said, "How are you?" She replied, "I am alright if I fear (Allah)."
Ibn `Abbas said, "Allah willing, you are alright as you are the wife of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and he did not marry any virgin except you, and proof of your innocence was revealed from the Heaven."
Later on, Ibn Az-Zubair entered after him and `Aisha said to him, "Ibn `Abbas came to me and praised me greatly, but I wish that I was a thing forgotten and out of sight."
Hadith - 276
Narrated Al-Qasim: Ibn `Abbas asked `Aisha's permission to enter. Al-Qasim then narrated the whole Hadith (as in Hadith 275) but did not mention: "Would that I had been forgotten and out of sight."
Hadith - 277
Narrated Masruq: `Aisha said that Hassan bin Thabit came and asked permission to visit her. I said, "How do you permit such a person?" She said, "Hasn't he received a severely penalty?" (Sufyan, the subnarrator, said: She meant the loss of his sight.)
Thereupon Hassan said the following poetic verse: "A chaste pious woman who arouses no suspicion. She never talks about chaste heedless women behind their backs." On that, she said, "But you are not so."
Hadith - 278
Narrated Masruq: Hassan came to Aisha and said the following poetic Verse: 'A chaste pious woman who arouses no suspicion. She never talks against chaste heedless women behind their backs.' `Aisha said, "But you are not."
I said (to `Aisha), "Why do you allow such a person to enter upon you after Allah has revealed: '...and as for him among them who had the greater share therein'?" (Surah 24: Ayah 11)
She said, "What punishment is worse than blindness?" She added, "And he used to defend Allah's Apostle against the pagans (in his poetry)."
Hadith - 279
Narrated Aisha: When there was said about me what was said which I myself was unaware of, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) got up and addressed the people.
He recited Tashah-hud, and after glorifying and praising Allah as He deserved, he said, "To proceed: O people Give me your opinion regarding those people who made a forged story against my wife. By Allah, I do not know anything bad about her.
By Allah, they accused her of being with a man about whom I have never known anything bad, and he never entered my house unless I was present there, and whenever I went on a journey, he went with me."
Sa`d bin Mu`adh got up and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) Allow me to chop their heads off."
Then a man from the Al-Khazraj (Sa`d bin 'Ubada) to whom the mother of (the poet) Hassan bin Thabit was a relative, got up and said (to Sa`d bin Mu`adh), "You have told a lie! By Allah, if those persons were from the Aus Tribe, you would not like to chop their heads off."
It was probable that some evil would take place between the Aus and the Khazraj in the mosque, and I was unaware of all that.
In the evening of that day, I went out for some of my needs (i.e. to relieve myself), and Um Mistah was accompanying me. On our return, Um Mistah stumbled and said, "Let Mistah be ruined!" I said to her, "O mother, why do you abuse your Son?"
On that, Um Mistah became silent for a while, and stumbling again, she said, "Let Mistah be ruined!" I said to her, "Why do you abuse your son?"
She stumbled for the third time and said, "Let Mistah be ruined!", whereupon I rebuked her for that. She said, "By Allah, I do not abuse him except because of you." I asked her, "Concerning what of my affairs?" So she disclosed the whole story to me.
I said, "Has this really happened?" She replied, "Yes, by Allah." I returned to my house, astonished (and distressed) that I did not know for what purpose I had gone out.
Then I became sick (fever) and said to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), "Send me to my father's house." So he sent a slave with me, and when I entered the house, I found Um Ruman (my mother) downstairs while (my father) Abu Bakr was reciting something upstairs.
My mother asked, "What has brought you, O (my) daughter?" I informed her and mentioned to her the whole story, but she did not feel it as I did.
She said, "O my daughter! Take it easy, for there is never a charming lady loved by her husband who has other wives but that they feel jealous of her and speak badly of her." But she did not feel the news as I did.
I asked (her), "Does my father know about it?" She said, "Yes." I asked, "Does Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) know about it too?" She said, "Yes, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) does too." So the tears filled my eyes and I wept.
Abu Bakr, who was reading upstairs heard my voice and came down and asked my mother, "What is the matter with her? " She said, "She has heard what has been said about her (as regards the story of Al-Ifk)."
On that, Abu-Bakr wept and said, "I beseech you by Allah, O my daughter, to go back to your home."
I went back to my home and Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had come to my house and asked my maid-servant about me (my character). The maid-servant said, "By Allah, I do not know of any defect in her character, except that she sleeps and let the sheep enter (her house) and eat her dough."
On that, some of the Prophet's companions spoke harshly to her and said, "Tell the truth to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)." Finally they told her of the affair (of the slander). She said, "Subhan Allah! By Allah, I know nothing against her except what goldsmith knows about a piece of pure gold."
Then this news reached the man who was accused, and he said, "Subhan Allah! By Allah, I have never uncovered the private parts of any woman." Later, that man was martyred in Allah's Cause.
Next morning, my parents came to pay me a visit and they stayed with me till Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) came to me after he had offered the `Asr prayer. He came to me while my parents were sitting around me on my right and my left.
He praised and glorified Allah and said, "Now then, O `Aisha! If you have committed a bad deed or you have wronged (yourself), then repent to Allah as Allah accepts the repentance from his slaves."
An Ansari woman had come and was sitting near the gate. I said (to the Prophet), "Isn't it improper that you speak in such a way in the presence of this lady?"
Allah's Apostle then gave a piece of advice, and I turned to my father and requested him to answer him (on my behalf). My father said, "What should I say?" Then I turned to my mother and asked her to answer him. She said, "What should I say?"
When my parents did not give a reply to the Prophet (ﷺ), I said, "I testify that none has the right to be worshipped except Allah, and that Muhammad is His Apostle!"
And after praising and glorifying Allah as He deserves, I said, "Now then, by Allah, if I were to tell you that I have not done (this evil action) and Allah is a witness that I am telling the truth, that would not be of any use to me on your part because you (people) have spoken about it and your hearts have absorbed it; and if I were to tell you that I have done this sin and Allah knows that I have not done it, then you will say, 'She has confessed herself guilty.'
By Allah, I do not see a suitable example for me and you but the example of (I tried to remember Jacob's name but couldn't) Joseph's father when he said, 'So (for me) patience is most fitting against that which you assert. It is Allah (alone) whose help can be sought.'"
At that very hour, the Divine Inspiration came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and we remained silent. Then the Inspiration was over and I noticed the signs of happiness on his face while he was removing (the sweat) from his forehead and saying, "Have the good tidings, O 'Aisha! Allah has revealed your innocence."
At that time I was extremely angry. My parents said to me, "Get up and go to him." I said, "By Allah, I will not do it and will not thank him nor thank either of you, but I will thank Allah Who has revealed my innocence. You have heard this story but neither did not deny it nor change it (to defend me)."
(Aisha used to say:) But as regards Zainab bint Jahsh, (the Prophet's wife), Allah protected her because of her piety, so she did not say anything except good (about me), but her sister, Hamna, was ruined among those who were ruined.
Those who used to speak evil about me were Mistah, Hassan bin Thabit, and the hypocrite, `Abdullah bin Ubai, who used to spread that news and tempt others to speak of it, and it was he and Hamna who had the greater share therein.
Abu Bakr took an oath that he would never do any favor to Mistah at all. Then Allah revealed the Divine Verse: "Let not those among you who are good and wealthy (i.e. Abu Bakr) swear not to give (any sort of help) to their kinsmen, and those in need, (i.e. Mistah) ... Do you not love that Allah should forgive you? And Allah is Oft-Forgiving, Most Merciful." (Surah 24: Ayah 22)
On that, Abu Bakr said, "Yes, by Allah, O our Lord! We wish that You should forgive us." So Abu Bakr again started giving to Mistah the expenditure which he used to give him before.
Hadith - 280
Narrated `Aishah: May Allah bestow His Mercy on the early emigrant women.
When Allah revealed: "... and to draw their veils all over their Juyubihinna (i.e., their bodies, faces, necks and bosoms)..." (Surah 24: Ayah 31) they tore their Murut (woolen dresses or waist-binding clothes or aprons etc) and covered their heads and faces with those torn Muruts.
Hadith - 281
Narrated Safiya bint Shaiba: `Aisha used to say: 'When (the Verse): "They should draw their veils over their necks and bosoms," was revealed, (the ladies) cut their waist sheets at the edges and covered their heads and faces with those cut pieces of cloth.'
Hadith - 282
Narrated Anas bin Malik: A man said, "O Allah's Prophet! Will Allah gather the non-believers on their faces on the Day of Resurrection?" He said, "Will not the One Who made him walk on his feet in this world, be able to make him walk on his face on the Day of Resurrection?"
(Qatada, a subnarrator, said: "Yes, By the Power of Our Lord").
Hadith - 283
Narrated `Abdullah: I or somebody, asked Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), "Which is the biggest sin in the Sight of Allah?" He said, "That you set up a rival (in worship) to Allah though He Alone created you."
I asked, "What is next?" He said, "Then, that you kill your son, being afraid that he may share your meals with you."
I asked, "What is next?" He said, "That you commit illegal sexual intercourse with the wife of your neighbor."
Then the following Verse was revealed to confirm the statement of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ): "Those who invoke not with Allah, any other god, nor kill life as Allah has forbidden except for just cause, nor commit illegal sexual intercourse." (Surah 25: Ayah 68)
Hadith - 284
Narrated Al-Qasim bin Abi Bazza: That he asked Sa`id bin Jubair, "Is there any repentance of the one who has murdered a believer intentionally?" Then I recited to him: "Nor kill such life as Allah has forbidden except for a just cause."
Sa`id said, "I recited this very verse before Ibn `Abbas as you have recited it before me. Ibn `Abbas said, 'This Verse was revealed in Mecca, and it has been abrogated by a verse in Surat-An-Nisa which was later revealed in Medina.'"
Hadith - 285
Narrated Sa`id bin Jubair: The people of Kufa differed as regards the killing of a believer, so I entered upon Ibn `Abbas (and asked him) about that. Ibn `Abbas said, "The Verse (in Surat-An-Nisa', Surah 4: Ayah 93) was the last thing revealed in this respect, and nothing cancelled its validity."
Hadith - 286
Narrated Sa`id bin Jubair: I asked Ibn `Abbas about Allah's saying: '... this reward is Hell Fire' (Surah 4: Ayah 93). He said, "No repentance is accepted from him (i.e. the murderer of a believer)."
I asked him regarding the saying of Allah: "Those who invoke not with Allah any other god" (Surah 25: Ayah 68). He said, "This Verse was revealed concerning the pagans of the pre-Islamic period."
Hadith - 287
Narrated Sa`id bin Jubair: Ibn Abza said to me, "Ask Ibn `Abbas regarding the Statement of Allah: 'And whoever murders a believer intentionally, his recompense is Hell' (Surah 4: Ayah 69). And also His Statement: '...nor kill such life as Allah has forbidden, except for a just cause ... except those who repent, believe, and do good deeds.'" (Surah 25: Ayat 68-70)
So I asked Ibn `Abbas and he said, 'When this (Surah 25: Ayat 68-69) was revealed, the people of Mecca said, "We have invoked other gods with Allah, and we have murdered such lives which Allah has made sacred, and we have committed illegal sexual intercourse."
So Allah revealed: 'Except those who repent, believe, and do good deeds and Allah is Oft-Forgiving, Most Merciful.' (Surah 25: Ayah 70)
Hadith - 288
Narrated Sa`id bin Jubair: `Abdur-Rahman bin Abza ordered me to ask Ibn `Abbas regarding the two Verses (the first of which was): "And whosoever murders a believer intentionally." (Surah 4: Ayah 93)
So I asked him, and he said, "Nothing has abrogated this Verse." About (the other Verse): 'And those who invoke not with Allah any other god,' he said, "It was revealed concerning the pagans."
Hadith - 289
Narrated `Abdullah: Five (great events) have passed: the Smoke, the Moon, the Romans, the Mighty grasp and the constant Punishment which occurs in 'So the torment will be yours forever.' (Surah 25: Ayah 77)
Hadith - 290
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "On the Day of Resurrection, Abraham will see his father covered with Qatara and Ghabara (i.e. having a dark face)."
Hadith - 291
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Abraham will meet his father (on the Day of Resurrection) and will say, 'O my Lord! You promised me that You would not let me in disgrace on the Day when people will be resurrected.'
Allah will say, 'I have forbidden Paradise to the non-believers.'"
Hadith - 292
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: When the Verse: 'And warn your tribe of near kindred,' was revealed, the Prophet (ﷺ) ascended the Safa (mountain) and started calling, "O Bani Fihr! O Bani `Adi!" addressing various tribes of Quraish till they were assembled.
Those who could not come themselves, sent their messengers to see what was there. Abu Lahab and other people from Quraish came, and the Prophet (ﷺ) then said, "Suppose I told you that there is an (enemy) cavalry in the valley intending to attack you, would you believe me?" They said, "Yes, for we have not found you telling anything other than the truth."
He then said, "I am a warner to you in face of a terrific punishment." Abu Lahab said (to the Prophet), "May your hands perish all this day. Is it for this purpose you have gathered us?"
Then it was revealed: "Perish the hands of Abu Lahab (one of the Prophet's uncles), and perish he! His wealth and his children will not profit him..." (Surah 111)
Hadith - 293
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) got up when the Verse: "And warn your tribe of near kindred...." (Surah 26: Ayah 214) was revealed and said, "O Quraish people! (or he said a similar word) Buy yourselves! I cannot save you from Allah (if you disobey Him).
O Bani Abd Manaf! I cannot save you from Allah (if you disobey Him). O `Abbas, the son of `Abdul Muttalib! I cannot save you from Allah (if you disobey Him).
O Safiya, (the aunt of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ))! I cannot save you from Allah (if you disobey Him). O Fatima, the daughter of Muhammad! Ask what you wish from my property, but I cannot save you from Allah (if you disobey Him)."
Hadith - 294
Narrated Al-Musaiyab: When Abu Talib was on his death bed, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) came to him and found with him Abu Jahl and `Abdullah bin Abi Umaiya bin Al-Mughira.
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "O uncle! Say: 'None has the right to be worshipped except Allah,' a sentence with which I will defend you before Allah."
On that, Abu Jahl and `Abdullah bin Abi Umaiya said to Abu Talib, "Will you now leave the religion of `Abdul Muttalib?"
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) kept on inviting him to say that sentence while the other two kept on repeating their sentence before him, till Abu Talib said as the last thing he said to them, "I am on the religion of `Abdul Muttalib," and refused to say: None has the right to be worshipped except Allah.
On that, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "By Allah, I will keep on asking Allah's forgiveness for you unless I am forbidden (by Allah) to do so."
So Allah revealed: 'It is not fitting for the Prophet (ﷺ) and those who believe that they should invoke (Allah) for forgiveness for pagans.' (Surah 9: Ayah 113)
And then Allah revealed especially about Abu Talib: 'Verily! You (O, Muhammad) guide not whom you like, but Allah guides whom He wills.' (Surah 28: Ayah 56)
Hadith - 295
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: Qur'an Surah 28: Ayah 85: '...will bring you home' means to Mecca.
Hadith - 296
Narrated Masruq: While a man was delivering a speech in the tribe of Kinda, he said, "Smoke will prevail on the Day of Resurrection and will deprive the hypocrites their faculties of hearing and seeing. The believers will be afflicted with something like cold only thereof."
That news scared us, so I went to (Abdullah) Ibn Mas`ud while he was reclining (and told him the story) whereupon he became angry, sat up and said, 'He who knows a thing can say it, but if he does not know, he should say, "Allah knows best," for it is an aspect of knowledge to say, "I do not know," if you do not know a certain thing.
Allah said to His prophet, "Say (O Muhammad): No wage do I ask of you for this (Qur'an), nor I am one of the pretenders (a person who pretends things which do not exist.)" (Surah 38: Ayah 86)
The Quraish delayed in embracing Islam for a period, so the Prophet (ﷺ) invoked evil on them, saying, "O Allah! Help me against them by sending seven years of (famine) like those of Joseph."
So they were afflicted with such a severe year of famine that they were destroyed therein and ate dead animals and bones. They started seeing something like smoke between the sky and the earth (because of severe hunger).
Abu Sufyan then came (to the Prophet) and said, "O Muhammad! You came to order us to keep good relations with Kith and kin, and your kinsmen have now perished, so please invoke Allah (to relieve them)."
Then Ibn Mas`ud recited: 'Then watch you for the day that the sky will bring forth a kind of smoke plainly visible....but truly you will return! (to disbelief)' (Surah 44: Ayat 10-15)
Ibn Mas`ud added, "Then the punishment was stopped, but truly, they reverted to heathenism (their old way). So Allah (threatened them thus): 'On the day when we shall seize you with a mighty grasp.' (Surah 44: Ayah 16) And that was the day of the Battle of Badr.
Allah's saying, "Lizama" (the punishment) refers to the day of Badr.
Allah's Statement: "Alif-Lam-Mim, the Romans have been defeated, and they, after their defeat, will be victorious," (Surah 30: Ayat 1-3) (This verse): Indicates that the defeat of Byzantine has already passed.
Hadith - 297
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "No child is born except on Al-Fitra (Islam) and then his parents make him Jewish, Christian or Magian, as an animal produces a perfect young animal: do you see any part of its body amputated?"
Then he recited, 'The religion of pure Islamic Faith (Hanifa) (i.e. to worship none but Allah), the pure Allah's Islamic nature with which He (Allah) has created mankind. Let there be no change in Allah's religion (i.e. to join none in Allah's worship). That is the straight religion; but most of men know not...' (Surah 30: Ayah 30)
Hadith - 298
Narrated `Abdullah: When there was revealed: 'It is those who believe and confuse not their beliefs with wrong,' (Surah 6: Ayah 82) tt was very hard for the companions of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), so they said, "Which of us has not confused his belief with wrong?"
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The Verse does not mean this. Don't you hear Luqman's statement to his son: 'Verily! Joining others in worship, with Allah is a great wrong indeed.'" (Surah 31: Ayah 13)
Hadith - 299
Narrated Abu Huraira: One day, while Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was sitting with the people, a man came to him walking and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). What is Belief?"
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Belief is to believe in Allah, His Angels, His Books, His Apostles, and the meeting with Him, and to believe in the Resurrection."
The man asked, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! What is Islam?" The Prophet (ﷺ) replied, "Islam is to worship Allah and not worship anything besides Him, to offer prayers perfectly, to pay the (compulsory) charity (i.e. Zakat) and to fast the month of Ramadan."
The man again asked, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) What is Ihsan (i.e. perfection or Benevolence)?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Ihsan is to worship Allah as if you see Him, and if you do not achieve this state of devotion, then (take it for granted that) Allah sees you."
The man further asked, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) When will the Hour be established?" The Prophet (ﷺ) replied, "The one who is asked about it does not know more than the questioner does, but I will describe to you its portents.
When the lady slave gives birth to her mistress, that will be of its portents; when the bare-footed naked people become the chiefs of the people, that will be of its portents.
The Hour is one of five things which nobody knows except Allah. Verily, the knowledge of the Hour is with Allah (alone). He sends down the rain, and knows that which is in the wombs." (Surah 31: Ayah 34)
Then the man left. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Call him back to me." They went to call him back but could not see him. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "That was Gabriel who came to teach the people their religion."
Hadith - 300
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The keys of the Unseen are five." And then he recited: 'Verily, the knowledge of the Hour is with Allah (alone).' (Surah 31: Ayah 34)