Hadith - 1
Narrated Anas bin Malik: A group of three men came to the houses of the wives of the Prophet (ﷺ) asking how the Prophet (ﷺ) worshipped (Allah), and when they were informed about that, they considered their worship insufficient and said, "Where are we from the Prophet (ﷺ) as his past and future sins have been forgiven."
Then one of them said, "I will offer the prayer throughout the night forever." The other said, "I will fast throughout the year and will not break my fast." The third said, "I will keep away from the women and will not marry forever."
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) came to them and said, "Are you the same people who said so-and-so? By Allah, I am more submissive to Allah and more afraid of Him than you; yet I fast and break my fast, I do sleep and I also marry women.
So he who does not follow my tradition in religion, is not from me (not one of my followers)."
Hadith - 2
Narrated 'Urwa: That he asked `Aisha about the Statement of Allah: 'If you fear that you shall not be able to deal justly with the orphan girls, then marry (other) women of your choice, two or three or four; but if you fear that you shall not be able to deal justly (with them), then only one, or (the captives) that your right hands possess. That will be nearer to prevent you from doing injustice.' (Surah 4: Ayah 3)
`Aisha said, "O my nephew! (This Verse has been revealed in connection with) an orphan girl under the guardianship of her guardian who is attracted by her wealth and beauty and intends to marry her with a Mahr less than what other women of her standard deserve.
So they (such guardians) have been forbidden to marry them unless they do justice to them and give them their full Mahr, and they are ordered to marry other women instead of them."
Hadith - 3
Narrated 'Alqama: While I was with `Abdullah, `Uthman met him at Mina and said, "O Abu `Abdur-Rahman! I have something to say to you."
So both of them went aside and `Uthman said, "O Abu `Abdur-Rahman! Shall we marry you to a virgin who will make you remember your past days?" When `Abdullah felt that he was not in need of that, he beckoned me (to join him) saying, "O 'Alqama!"
Then I heard him saying (in reply to `Uthman), "As you have said that, (I tell you that) the Prophet (ﷺ) once said to us, 'O young people! Whoever among you is able to marry, should marry, and whoever is not able to marry, is recommended to fast, as fasting diminishes his sexual power.'"
Hadith - 4
Narrated `Abdullah: We were with the Prophet (ﷺ) while we were young and had no wealth.
So Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "O young people! Whoever among you can marry, should marry, because it helps him lower his gaze and guard his modesty (i.e. his private parts from committing illegal sexual intercourse etc), and whoever is not able to marry, should fast, as fasting diminishes his sexual power."
Hadith - 5
Narrated 'Ata: We presented ourselves along with Ibn `Abbas at the funeral procession of Maimuna at a place called Sarif.
Ibn `Abbas said, "This is the wife of the Prophet (ﷺ) so when you lift her bier, do not jerk it or shake it much, but walk smoothly because the Prophet (ﷺ) had nine wives and he used to observe the night turns with eight of them, and for one of them there was no night turn."
Hadith - 6
Narrated Anas: The Prophet (ﷺ) used to go round (have sexual relations with) all his wives in one night, and he had nine wives.
Hadith - 7
Narrated Sa`id bin Jubair: Ibn `Abbas asked me, "Are you married?" I replied, "No." He said, "Marry, for the best person of this (Muslim) nation (i.e., Muhammad) of all other Muslims, had the largest number of wives."
Hadith - 8
Narrated `Umar bin Al-Khattab: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The rewards (of deeds) are according to the intention, and everybody will get the reward for what he has intended.
So whoever emigrated for Allah's and His Apostle's sake, his emigration was for Allah and His Apostle; and whoever emigrated for worldly benefits, or to marry a woman, then his emigration was for the thing for what he emigrated for."
Hadith - 9
Narrated Ibn Masud: We used to fight in the holy battles in the company of the Prophet (ﷺ) and we had no wives with us. So we said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Shall we get castrated?" The Prophet (ﷺ) forbade us to do so.
Hadith - 10
Narrated Anas bin Malik: `Abdur-Rahman bin `Auf came (from Mecca to Medina) and the Prophet (ﷺ) made a bond of brotherhood between him and Sa`d bin Ar-Rabi` Al-Ansari.
Al-Ansari had two wives, so he suggested that `Abdur-Rahman take half his wives and property. `Abdur-Rahman replied, "May Allah bless you with your wives and property. Kindly show me the market."
So `Abdur-Rahman went to the market and gained (in bargains) some dried yoghurt and some butter.
After a few days the Prophet (ﷺ) saw `Abdur-Rahman with some yellow stains on his clothes and asked him, "What is that, O `Abdur-Rahman?" He replied, "I have married an Ansari woman."
The Prophet (ﷺ) asked, "How much Mahr did you give her?" He replied, "The weight of one (date) stone of gold." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Offer a banquet, even with one sheep."
Hadith - 11
Narrated Sa`d bin Abi Waqqas: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade `Uthman bin Maz'un to abstain from marrying (and other pleasures) and if he had allowed him, we would have gotten ourselves castrated.
Hadith - 12
Narrated Sa`d bin Abi Waqqas: The Prophet (ﷺ) prevented `Uthman bin Mazun from that (not marrying), and had he allowed him, we would have got ourselves castrated.
Hadith - 13
Narrated 'Abdullah: We used to participate in the holy battles led by Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and we had nothing (no wives) with us. So we said, "Shall we get ourselves castrated?"
He forbade us that and then allowed us to marry women with a temporary contract and recited to us: 'O you who believe! Make not unlawful the good things which Allah has made lawful for you, but commit no transgression.' (Surah 5: Ayah 87)
Hadith - 14
Narrated Abu Huraira: I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! I am a young man and I am afraid that I may commit illegal sexual intercourse and I cannot afford to marry."
He kept silent, and then I repeated my question once again, but he kept silent. I said the same (for the third time) and he remained silent.
Then I repeated my question (for the fourth time), and only then the Prophet said, "O Abu Huraira! The pen has dried after writing what you are going to confront. So (it does not matter whether you) get yourself castrated or not."
Hadith - 15
Narrated `Aisha: I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Suppose you landed in a valley where there is a tree of which something has been eaten, and then you found trees of which nothing has been eaten, of which tree would you let your camel graze?"
He said, "(I will let my camel graze) of the one of which nothing has been eaten before."
(The sub-narrator added: `Aisha meant that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had not married a virgin besides herself.)
Hadith - 16
Narrated `Aisha: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said (to me), "You have been shown to me twice in (my) dreams. A man was carrying you in a silken cloth and said to me, 'This is your wife.' I uncovered it; and behold, it was you.
I said to myself, 'If this dream is from Allah, He will cause it to come true.'"
Hadith - 17
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah: While we were returning from a Ghazwa (Holy Battle) with the Prophet, I started driving my camel fast, as it was a lazy camel.
A rider came behind me and pricked my camel with a spear he had with him, and then my camel started running as fast as the best camel you may see. Behold! The rider was the Prophet (ﷺ) himself.
He said, "What makes you in such a hurry?" I replied, "I am newly married." He said, "Did you marry a virgin or a matron?" I replied, "A matron." He said, "Why didn't you marry a young girl so that you may play with her and she with you?"
When we were about to enter (Medina), the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Wait so that you may enter (Medina) at night so that the lady of unkempt hair may comb her hair and the one whose husband has been absent may shave her pubic region."
Hadith - 18
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah: When I got married, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said to me, "What type of lady have you married?" I replied, "I have married a matron." He said, "Why don't you have a liking for the virgins and for fondling them?"
Jabir also said: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Why didn't you marry a young girl so that you might play with her and she with you?"
Hadith - 19
Narrated 'Urwa: The Prophet (ﷺ) asked Abu Bakr for `Aisha's hand in marriage. Abu Bakr said, "But I am your brother." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "You are my brother in Allah's religion and His Book, but she (Aisha) is lawful for me to marry."
Hadith - 20
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The best women are the riders of the camels and the righteous among the women of Quraish. They are the kindest women to their children in their childhood and the more careful women of the property of their husbands."
Hadith - 21
Narrated Abu Burda's father: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Any man who has a slave girl whom he educates properly, teaches good manners, manumits and marries her, will get a double reward.
And if any man of the people of the Scriptures believes in his own prophet and then believes in me too, he will (also) get a double reward. And any slave who fulfills his duty to his master and to his Lord, will (also) get a double reward."
Hadith - 22
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Abraham did not tell lies except three. (One of them was) when Abraham passed by a tyrant and (his wife) Sara was accompanying him. (Abu Huraira then mentioned the whole narration and said:) (The tyrant) gave her Hajar.
Sara said, "Allah saved me from the hands of the Kafir (i.e. infidel) and gave me Hajar to serve me." (Abu Huraira added:) That (Hajar) is your mother, O Banu Ma'-As-Sama' (i.e., the Arabs).
Hadith - 23
Narrated Anas: The Prophet (ﷺ) stayed for three days between Khaibar and Medina, and there he consummated his marriage to Safiyya bint Huyai. I invited the Muslims to the wedding banquet in which neither meat nor bread was offered.
He ordered for leather dining-sheets to be spread, and dates, dried yoghurt and butter were laid on it, and that was the Prophet's wedding banquet.
The Muslims wondered, "Is she (Safiyya) considered as his wife or his slave girl?" Then they said, "If he orders her to veil herself, she will be one of the mothers of the Believers; but if he does not order her to veil herself, she will be a slave girl."
So when the Prophet (ﷺ) proceeded from there, he spared her a space behind him (on his she-camel) and put a screening veil between her and the people.
Hadith - 24
Narrated Anas bin Malik: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) manumitted Safiyya and regarded her manumission as her Mahr.
Hadith - 25
Narrated Sahl bin Sa`d As-Sa`idi: A woman came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! I have come to give you myself in marriage (without Mahr)."
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) looked at her. He looked at her carefully and fixed his glance on her and then lowered his head. When the lady saw that he did not say anything, she sat down.
A man from his companions got up and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! If you are not in need of her, then marry her to me." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Have you got anything to offer?" The man said, "No, by Allah, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)!"
The Prophet (ﷺ) said (to him), "Go to your family and see if you have something." The man went and returned, saying, "No, by Allah, I have not found anything."
Allah's Apostle said, "(Go again) and look for something, even if it is an iron ring." He went again and returned, saying, "No, by Allah, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! I could not find even an iron ring, but this is my Izar (waist sheet)." He had no rida.
He added, "I give half of it to her." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "What will she do with your Izar? If you wear it, she will be naked, and if she wears it, you will be naked."
So that man sat down for a long while and then got up (to depart). When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saw him going, he ordered that he be called back.
When he came, the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "How much of the Qur'an do you know?" He said, "I know such Sura and such Sura," counting them. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Do you know them by heart?" He replied, "Yes." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Go, I marry her to you for that much of the Qur'an which you have."
Hadith - 26
Narrated `Aisha: Abu Hudhaifa bin `Utba bin Rabi`a bin `Abdi Shams who had witnessed the battle of Badr along with the Prophet (ﷺ) adopted Salim as his son, to whom he married his niece, Hind bint Al-Walid bin `Utba bin Rabi`a; and Salim was the freed slave of an Ansar woman, just as the Prophet (ﷺ) had adopted Zaid as his son.
It was the custom in the Pre-Islamic period that if somebody adopted a boy, the people would call him the son of the adoptive father and he would be the latter's heir.
But when Allah revealed the Divine Verses: 'Call them by (the names of) their fathers ... your freed-slaves,' (Surah 33: Ayah 5) the adopted persons were called by their fathers' names.
The one whose father was not known, would be regarded as a Maula and your brother in religion.
Later on, Sahla bint Suhail bin `Amr Al-Quraishi Al-`Amiri - and she was the wife of Abu Hudhaifa bin `Utba - came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! We used to consider Salim as our (adopted) son, and now Allah has revealed what you know (regarding adopted sons)."
The sub-narrator then mentioned the rest of the narration.
Hadith - 27
Narrated `Aisha: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) entered upon Dubaa bint Az-Zubair and said to her, "Do you have a desire to perform the Hajj?" She replied, "By Allah, I feel sick."
He said to her, "Intend to perform Hajj and stipulate something by saying, 'O Allah, I will finish my Ihram at any place where You stop me (i.e. I am unable to go further).'" She was the wife of Al-Miqdad bin Al-Aswad.
Hadith - 28
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "A woman is married for four things, i.e., her wealth, her family status, her beauty and her religion. So you should marry the religious woman, (otherwise) you will be losers."
Hadith - 29
Narrated Sahl: A man passed by Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and Allah's Apostle asked (his companions), "What do you say about this (man)?" They replied, "If he asks for a lady's hand, he ought to be given her in marriage; and if he intercedes (for someone) his intercession should be accepted; and if he speaks, he should be listened to."
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) kept silent, and then a man from among the poor Muslims passed by, and Allah's Apostle asked (them), "What do you say about this man?"
They replied, "If he asks for a lady's hand in marriage he does not deserve to be married, and if he intercedes (for someone), his intercession should not be accepted; and if he speaks, he should not be listened to."
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "This poor man is better than so many of the first as filling the earth."
Hadith - 30
Narrated 'Urwa: That he asked `Aisha regarding the Verse: 'If you fear that you shall not be able to deal justly with the orphans...' (Surah 4: Ayah 3)
She said, "O my nephew! This Verse refers to the orphan girl who is under the guardianship of her guardian who likes her beauty and wealth and wishes to (marry her and) curtails her Mahr.
Such guardians have been forbidden to marry them unless they do justice by giving them their full Mahr, and they have been ordered to marry other than them.
The people asked for the verdict of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) after that, so Allah revealed: 'They ask your instruction concerning the women ... whom you desire to marry.' (Surah 4: Ayah  127)
So Allah revealed to them that if the orphan girl had beauty and wealth, they desired to marry her and for her family status. They can only marry them if they give them their full Mahr.
And if they had no desire to marry them because of their lack of wealth and beauty, they would leave them and marry other women. So, as they used to leave them, when they had no interest in them, they were forbidden to marry them when they had such interest, unless they treated them justly and gave them their full Mahr."
Hadith - 31
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Evil omen is in the women, the house and the horse."
Hadith - 32
Narrated Ibn `Umar: Evil omen was mentioned before the Prophet. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If there is evil omen in anything, it is in the house, the woman and the horse."
Hadith - 33
Narrated Sahl bin Sa`d: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If at all there is bad omen, it is in the horse, the woman, and the house."
Hadith - 34
Narrated Usama bin Zaid: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "After me, I have not left any trial more severe to men than women."
Hadith - 35
Narrated `Aisha: Three principles were established because of Barira: (1) When Barira was manumitted she was given the option (to remain with her slave husband or not).
(2) Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The Wala of the slave is for the one who manumits (the slave)."
(3) When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) entered (the house), he saw a cooking pot on the fire but he was given bread and meat soup from the soup of the home. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Didn't I see the cooking pot (on the fire)?"
It was said, "That is the meat given in charity to Barira, and you do not eat the (things given in) charity." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "It is an object of charity for Barira, and it is a present for us."
Hadith - 36
Narrated Aisha: (regarding) the Verse: 'And if you fear that you shall not be able to deal justly with the orphans...' (Surah 4: Ayah 3) It is about the orphan girl who is in the custody of a man who is her guardian, and he intends to marry her because of her wealth, but he treats her badly and does not manage her property fairly and honestly.
Such a man should marry women of his liking other than her, two or three or four.
Hadith - 37
Narrated `Aisha (the wife of the Prophet): That while Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was with her, she heard a voice of a man asking permission to enter the house of Hafsa. `Aisha added: I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! This man is asking permission to enter your house."
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I think he is so-and-so," naming the foster-uncle of Hafsa. `Aisha said, "If so-and-so," naming her foster uncle, "were living, could he enter upon me?"
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Yes, for foster suckling relations make all those things unlawful which are unlawful through corresponding birth (blood) relations."
Hadith - 38
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: It was said to the Prophet, "Won't you marry the daughter of Hamza?" He said, "She is my foster niece (brother's daughter)."
Hadith - 39
Narrated Um Habiba (daughter of Abu Sufyan): I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Marry my sister, the daughter of Abu Sufyan." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Do you like that?" I replied, "Yes, for even now I am not your only wife, and I like that my sister should share the good with me."
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "But that is not lawful for me." I said, "We have heard that you want to marry the daughter of Abu Salama." He said, "(You mean) the daughter of Um Salama?" I said, "Yes."
He said, "Even if she were not my step-daughter, she would be unlawful for me to marry as she is my foster niece. I and Abu Salama were suckled by Thuwaiba. So you should not present to me your daughters or your sisters (in marriage)."
Narrated 'Urwa: Thuwaiba was the freed slave girl of Abu Lahab whom he had manumitted, and then she suckled the Prophet. When Abu Lahab died, one of his relatives saw him in a dream in a very bad state and asked him, "What have you encountered?"
Abu Lahab said, "I have not found any rest since I left you, except that I have been given water to drink in this (the space between his thumb and other fingers) and that is because of my manumitting Thuwaiba."
Hadith - 40
Narrated `Aisha: That the Prophet (ﷺ) entered upon her while a man was sitting with her. Signs of anger seemed to appear on his face as if he disliked that. She said, "Here is my (foster) brother."
He said, "Be sure as to who is your foster brother, for foster suckling relationship is established only when milk is the only food of the child."
Hadith - 41
Narrated Aisha: That Aflah the brother of Abu Al-Qu'ais, her foster uncle, came, asking permission to enter upon her after the Verse of Al-Hijab (the use of veils by women) was revealed.
`Aisha added: I did not allow him to enter, but when Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) came, I told him what I had done, and he ordered me to give him permission.
Hadith - 42
Narrated `Uqba bin Al-Harith: I married a woman and then a black lady came to us and said, "I have suckled you both (you and your wife)."
So I came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said, "I married so-and-so and then a black lady came to us and said to me, 'I have suckled both of you.' But I think she is a liar." The Prophet (ﷺ) turned his face away from me and I moved to face his face, and said, "She is a liar."
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "How (can you keep her as your wife) when that lady has said that she has suckled both of you? So abandon (i.e., divorce) her (your wife)."
Hadith - 43
Ibn 'Abbas further said, "Seven types of marriages are unlawful because of blood relations, and seven because of marriage relations." Then Ibn 'Abbas recited the Verse: "Forbidden for you (for marriages) are your mothers..." (Surah 4: Ayah 23).
'Abdullah bin Ja'far married the daughter and wife of 'Ali at the same time (they were step-daughter and mother). Ibn Sirin said, "There is no harm in that." But Al-Hasan Al-Basri disapproved of it at first, but then said that there was no harm in it.
Al-Hasan bin Al-Hasan bin 'Ali married two of his cousins in one night. Ja'far bin Zaid disapproved of that because of it would bring hatred (between the two cousins), but it is not unlawful, as Allah said, "Lawful to you are all others [beyond those (mentioned)]. (Surah 4: Ayah 24).
Ibn 'Abbas said: "If somebody commits illegal sexual intercourse with his wife's sister, his wife does not become unlawful for him." And narrated Abu Ja'far, "If a person commits homosexuality with a boy, then the mother of that boy is unlawful for him to marry."
Narrated Ibn 'Abbas, "If one commits illegal sexual intercourse with his mother-in-law, then his married relation to his wife does not become unlawful."
Abu Nasr reported to have said that Ibn 'Abbas in the above case, regarded his marital relation to his wife unlawful, but Abu Nasr is not known well for hearing Hadith from Ibn 'Abbas.
Imran bin Husain, Jabir bin Zaid, Al-Hasan and some other Iraqi's are reported to have judged that his marital relations to his wife would be unlawful.
In the above case Abu Hurairah said, "The marital relation to one's wife does not become unlawful except if one has had sexual intercourse (with her mother)."
Ibn Al-Musaiyab, 'Urwa, and Az-Zuhri allows such person to keep his wife. 'Ali said, "His marital relations to his wife does not become unlawful."
Hadith - 44
Narrated Um Habiba: I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Do you like to have (my sister) the daughter of Abu Sufyan?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "What shall I do (with her)?" I said, "Marry her."
He said, "Do you like that?" I said, "(Yes), for even now I am not your only wife, so I like that my sister should share you with me." He said, "She is not lawful for me (to marry)."
I said, "We have heard that you want to marry." He said, "The daughter of Um Salama?" I said, "Yes."
He said, "Even if she were not my step-daughter, she should be unlawful for me to marry, for Thuwaiba suckled me and her father (Abu Salama). So you should neither present your daughters nor your sisters to me."
Hadith - 45
Narrated Um Habiba: I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Marry my sister, the daughter of Abu Sufyan." He said, "Do you like that?" I said, "Yes, for even now I am not your only wife; and the most beloved person to share the good with me is my sister."
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "But that is not lawful for me (i.e., to be married to two sisters at a time.)"
I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! By Allah, we have heard that you want to marry Durra, the daughter of Abu Salama." He said, "You mean the daughter of Um Salama?" I said, "Yes."
He said, "By Allah! Even if she were not my step-daughter, she would not be lawful for me to marry, for she is my foster niece, for Thuwaiba has suckled me and Abu Salama. So you should neither present your daughters nor your sisters to me."
Hadith - 46
Narrated Jabir: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade that a woman should be married to a man along with her paternal or maternal aunt.
Hadith - 47
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "A woman and her paternal aunt should not be married to the same man; and similarly, a woman and her maternal aunt should not be married to the same man."
Hadith - 48
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) forbade that a woman should be married to a man along with her paternal aunt or with her maternal aunt (at the same time).
Az-Zuhri (the sub-narrator) said: There is a similar order for the paternal aunt of the father of one's wife, for 'Urwa told me that `Aisha said, "What is unlawful because of blood relations, is also unlawful because of the corresponding foster suckling relations."
Hadith - 49
Narrated Ibn `Umar: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade Ash-Shighar, which means that somebody marries his daughter to somebody else, and the latter marries his daughter to the former without paying Mahr.
Hadith - 50
Narrated Hisham's father: Khaula bint Hakim was one of those ladies who presented themselves to the Prophet (ﷺ) for marriage. `Aisha said, "Doesn't a lady feel ashamed for presenting herself to a man?"
But when the Verse: "(O Muhammad) You may postpone (the turn of) any of them (your wives) that you please," (Surah 33: Ayah 51) was revealed, `Aisha said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! I do not see, but that your Lord hurries in pleasing you."
Hadith - 51
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: The Prophet (ﷺ) got married while he was in the state of Ihram.
Hadith - 52
Narrated `Ali: I said to Ibn `Abbas, "During the battle of Khaibar, the Prophet (ﷺ) forbade (Nikah) Al-Mut'a and the eating of donkey's meat."
Hadith - 53
Narrated Abu Jamra: I heard Ibn `Abbas (giving a verdict) when he was asked about the Mut'a with the women, and he permitted it (Nikah-al-Mut'a). On that, a freed slave of his said to him, "That is only when it is very badly needed and women are scarce." On that, Ibn `Abbas said, "Yes."
Hadith - 54
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah and Salama bin Al-Akwa`: While we were in an army, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) came to us and said, "You have been allowed to do the Mut'a (marriage), so do it."
Hadith - 55
Salama bin Al-Akwa` said: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If a man and a woman agree (to marry temporarily), their marriage should last for three nights, and if they like to continue, they can do so; and if they want to separate, they can do so." I do not know whether that was only for us or for all the people in general.
Abu `Abdullah (Al-Bukhari) said: `Ali made it clear that the Prophet said, "The Mut'a marriage has been cancelled (made unlawful)."
Hadith - 56
Narrated Thabit Al-Bunani: I was with Anas while his daughter was present with him. Anas said, "A woman came to Allah's Apostle and presented herself to him, saying, 'O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), have you any need for me (i.e. would you like to marry me)?'"
Thereupon Anas's daughter said, "What a shameless lady she was! Shame! Shame!" Anas said, "She was better than you; she had a liking for the Prophet (ﷺ) so she presented herself for marriage to him."
Hadith - 57
Narrated Sahl bin Sa`d: A woman presented herself to the Prophet (for marriage). A man said to him, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! (If you are not in need of her) marry her to me." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "What have you got?" The man said, "I have nothing."
The Prophet (ﷺ) said (to him), "Go and search for something even if it were an iron ring." The man went and returned saying, "No, I have not found anything, not even an iron ring; but this is my (Izar) waist sheet, and half of it is for her." He had no Rida' (upper garment).
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "What will she do with your waist sheet? If you wear it, she will have nothing over her; and if she wears it, you will have nothing over you." So the man sat down and when he had sat a long time, he got up (to leave).
When the Prophet (ﷺ) saw him (leaving), he called him back, or the man was called (for him), and he said to the man, "How much of the Qur'an do you know (by heart)?"
The man replied, "I know such Sura and such Sura (by heart)," naming the Suras. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I have married her to you for what you know of the Qur'an."
Hadith - 58
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar: `Umar bin Al-Khattab said, "When Hafsa bint `Umar became a widow after the death of (her husband) Khunais bin Hudhafa As-Sahmi who had been one of the companions of the Prophet, and he died at Medina, I went to `Uthman bin `Affan and presented Hafsa (for marriage) to him.
He said, "I will think it over." I waited for a few days, then he met me and said, 'It seems that it is not possible for me to marry at present.'"
`Umar further said, "I met Abu Bakr As-Siddique and said to him, 'If you wish, I will marry my daughter Hafsa to you." Abu Bakr kept quiet and did not say anything to me in reply. I became more angry with him than with `Uthman.
I waited for a few days and then Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) asked for her hand, and I gave her in marriage to him.
Afterwards, I met Abu Bakr who said, 'Perhaps you became angry with me when you presented Hafsa to me and I did not give you a reply?' I said, 'Yes.'
Abu Bakr said, 'Nothing stopped me to respond to your offer except that I knew that Allah's Apostle had mentioned her, and I never wanted to let out the secret of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). And if Allah's Apostle had refused her, I would have accepted her.'"
Hadith - 59
Narrated Zainab bint Salama: Um Habiba said to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), "We have heard that you want to marry Durra bint Abu Salama." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Can she be married along with Um Salama (her mother)? Even if I had not married Um Salama, she would not be lawful for me to marry, for her father is my foster brother."
Hadith - 60
Ibn `Abbas said: "'Hint your intention of marrying' is made by saying (to the widow) for example: "I want to marry, and I wish that Allah will make a righteous lady available for me.'"
Al-Qasim said: One may say to the widow: 'I hold all respect for you, and I am interested in you; Allah will bring you much good,' or something similar.
'Ata said: One should hint his intention, and should not declare it openly. One may say: 'I have some need. Have good tidings. Praise be to Allah; you are fit to remarry.'
She (the widow) may say in reply: 'I am listening to what you say,' but she should not make a promise. Her guardian should not make a promise (to somebody to get her married to him) without her knowledge.
But if, while still in the Iddat period, she makes a promise to marry somebody, and he ultimately marries her, they are not to be separated by divorce (i.e., the marriage is valid).
Hadith - 61
Narrated `Aisha: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said (to me), "You were shown to me in a dream. An angel brought you to me, wrapped in a piece of silken cloth, and said to me, 'This is your wife.'
I removed the piece of cloth from your face, and there you were. I said to myself, 'If it is from Allah, then it will surely be.'"
Hadith - 62
Narrated Sahl bin Sa`d: A woman came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! I have come to you to present myself to you (for marriage)."
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) glanced at her. He looked at her carefully and fixed his glance on her and then lowered his head. When the lady saw that he did not say anything, she sat down.
A man from his companions got up and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! If you are not in need of her, then marry her to me." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Have you got anything to offer?" The man said, "No, by Allah, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)!"
The Prophet (ﷺ) said (to him), "Go to your family and try to find something." So the man went and returned, saying, "No, by Allah, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! I have not found anything."
The Prophet said, "Go again and look for something, even if it were an iron ring." He went and returned, saying, "No, by Allah, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! I could not find even an iron ring, but this is my Izar (waist sheet)." He had no Rida (upper garment).
He added, "I give half of it to her." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "What will she do with your Izar? If you wear it, she will have nothing over herself thereof (will be naked); and if she wears it, then you will have nothing over yourself thereof."
So the man sat for a long period and then got up (to leave). When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saw him leaving, he ordered that he be called back.
When he came, the Prophet (ﷺ) asked (him), "How much of the Qur'an do you know (by heart)?" The man replied, "I know such Sura and such Sura and such Sura," naming the suras.
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Can you recite it by heart?" He said, "Yes." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Go, I let you marry her for what you know of the Qur'an (as her Mahr)."
Hadith - 63
Narrated 'Urwa bin Az-Zubair: 'Aishah, the wife of the Prophet (ﷺ) told him that there were four types of marriage during Pre-Islamic period of Ignorance.
One type was similar to that of the present day, i.e. a man used to ask somebody else for the hand of a girl under his guardianship or for his daughter's hand, and give her Mahr and then marry her.
The second type was that a man would say to his wife after she had become clean from her period, "Send for so-and-so and have sexual intercourse with him." Her husband would then keep away from her and would never sleep with her till she got pregnant from the other man with whom she was sleeping.
When her pregnancy became evident, the husband would sleep with her if he wished. Her husband did so (i.e. let his wife sleep with some other man) so that he might have a child of noble breed. Such marriage was called as Al-Istibda'.
Another type of marriage was that a group of less than ten men would assemble and enter upon a woman, and all of them would have sexual relation with her.
If she became pregnant and delivered a child and some days had passed after delivery, she would send for all of them and none of them would refuse to come, and when they all gathered before her, she would say to them, "You (all) know what you have done, and now I have given birth to a child. So, it is your child so-and-so!" naming whoever she liked, and her child would follow him and he could not refuse to take him.
The fourth type of marriage was that many people would enter upon a lady and she would never refuse anyone who came to her. Those were the prostitutes who used to fix flags at their doors as sign, and he who wished could have sexual intercourse with them.
If anyone of them got pregnant and delivered a child, then all those men would be gathered for her and they would call the Qa'if (persons skilled in recognizing the likeness of a child to his father) to them and would let the child follow the man (whom they recognized as his father) and she would let him adhere to him and be called his son. The man would not refuse all that.
But when Muhammad (ﷺ) was sent with the Truth, he abolished all the types of marriages observed in pre-Islamic period of Ignorance except the type of marriage the people recognize today.
Hadith - 64
Narrated `Aisha: (as regards the Verse): 'And about what is recited unto you in the Book concerning orphan girls to whom you give not the prescribed portions, and yet whom you desire to marry' (Surah 4: Ayah 127). This Verse is about the female orphan who is under the guardianship of a man with whom she shares her property and he has more right over her (than anybody else) but does not like to marry her, so he prevents her from marrying somebody else, lest he should share the property with him.
Hadith - 65
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar: When Hafsa, `Umar's daughter, became a widow because of the death of her (husband) Ibn Hudhafa As-Sahmi who was one of the companions of the Prophet (ﷺ) and the one of the Badr warriors and died at Medina, `Umar said, "I met `Uthman bin `Affan and gave him an offer, saying, 'If you wish, I will marry Hafsa to you.'
He said, 'I will think it over.' I waited for a few days, then he met me and said, 'I have made up my mind not to marry at present.'"
`Umar added, "Then I met Abu Bakr and said to him, 'If you wish, I will marry Hafsa to you.'"
Hadith - 66
Narrated Al-Hasan: Concerning the Verse: 'Do not prevent them' (Surah 2: Ayah 232), Ma'qil bin Yasar told me that it was revealed in his connection.
He said, "I married my sister to a man and he divorced her, and when her days of 'Idda (three menstrual periods) were over, the man came again and asked for her hand, but I said to him, 'I married her to you and made her your bed (your wife) and favored you with her, but you divorced her.
Now you come to ask for her hand again? No, by Allah, she will never go back to you (again)!' That man was not a bad man and his wife wanted to go back to him.
So Allah revealed this Verse: 'Do not prevent them' (Surah 2: Ayah 232). So I said, "Now I will do it (let her go back to him), O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)." So he married her to him again.
Hadith - 67
Narrated `Aisha: (regarding His Statement): 'They ask your instruction concerning the women. Say: Allah instructs you about them ...' (Surah 4: Ayah 127) It is about the female orphan who is under the guardianship of a man with whom she shares her property and he does not want to marry her and dislikes that someone else should marry her, lest he should share the property with him, so he prevents her from marrying.
So Allah forbade such a guardian to do so (i.e. to prevent her from marrying).
Hadith - 68
Narrated Sahl bin Sa`d: While we were sitting in the company of the Prophet (ﷺ), a woman came to him and presented herself (for marriage) to him. The Prophet (ﷺ) looked at her, lowering his eyes and raising them, but did not give a reply.
One of his companions said, "Marry her to me, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)!" The Prophet (ﷺ) asked (him), "Have you got anything?" He said, "I have got nothing."
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Not even an iron ring?" He said, "Not even an iron ring, but I will tear my garment into two halves and give her one half and keep the other half."
The Prophet said, "No. Do you know some of the Qur'an (by heart)?" He said, "Yes." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Go, I have agreed to marry her to you with what you know of the Qur'an (as her Mahr)."
Hadith - 69
Narrated `Aisha: That the Prophet (ﷺ) married her when she was six years old and he consummated his marriage when she was nine years old, and then she remained with him for nine years (i.e., till his death).
Hadith - 70
Narrated `Aisha: That the Prophet (ﷺ) married her when she was six years old and he consummated his marriage when she was nine years old. Hisham said: "I have been informed that `Aisha remained with the Prophet (ﷺ) for nine years (i.e. till his death)."
Hadith - 71
Narrated Sahl bin Sa`d: A woman came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and said, "I present myself (to you) (for marriage)." She stayed for a long while, then a man said, "If you are not in need of her, then marry her to me."
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Have you got anything in order to pay her Mahr?" He said, "I have nothing with me except my Izar (waist sheet)." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If you give her your Izar, you will have no Izar to wear, (so go) and search for something."
He said, "I could not find anything." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Try (to find something), even if it were an iron ring." But he was not able to find (even that).
The Prophet (ﷺ) said (to him), "Do you memorize something of the Qur'an?" "Yes," he said, "such Sura and such Sura," naming those Suras. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "We have married her to you for what you know of the Qur'an (by heart)."