Hadith - 134
Narrated Ibn `Umar: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "All of you are guardians and are responsible for your wards.
The ruler is a guardian and the man is a guardian of his family; the lady is a guardian and is responsible for her husband's house and his offspring; and so all of you are guardians and are responsible for your wards."
Hadith - 135
Narrated Anas: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) took an oath that he would not visit his wives for one month, and he sat in an upper room belonging to him.
Then, on the twenty ninth day he came down. It was said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! You had taken an oath not to visit your wives for one month." He said, "The (present) month is of twenty-nine days."
Hadith - 136
Narrated Um Salama: The Prophet (ﷺ) took an oath that he would not enter upon some of his wives for one month. But when twenty nine days had elapsed, he went to them in the morning or evening.
It was said to him, "O Allah's Prophet! You had taken an oath that you would not enter upon them for one month." He replied, "The month can be of twenty nine days."
Hadith - 137
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: One morning we saw the wives of the Prophet (ﷺ) weeping, and everyone of them had her family with her, I went to the mosque and found that it was crowded with people.
Then `Umar bin Al-Khattab came and went up to the Prophet (ﷺ) who was in his upper room. He greeted him but nobody answered. He greeted again, but nobody answered.
Then the gatekeeper called him and he entered upon the Prophet, and asked, "Have you divorced your wives?" The Prophet, said, "No, but I have taken an oath not to go to them for one month."
So the Prophet (ﷺ) stayed away (from his wives) for twenty nine days and then entered upon them.
Hadith - 138
Narrated `Abdullah bin Zam`a: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "None of you should flog his wife as he flogs a slave and then have sexual intercourse with her in the last part of the day."
Hadith - 139
Narrated `Aisha: An Ansari woman gave her daughter in marriage and the hair of the latter started falling out. The Ansari women came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and mentioned that to him and said, "Her (my daughter's) husband suggested that I should let her wear false hair."
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "No, (don't do that) for Allah sends His curses upon such ladies who lengthen their hair artificially."
Hadith - 140
(Narrated Aisha: regarding the Verse: 'If a wife fears cruelty or desertion on her husband's part...') (Surah 4: Ayah 128) It concerns the woman whose husband does not want to keep her with him any longer, but wants to divorce her and marry some other lady, so she says to him: 'Keep me and do not divorce me, and then marry another woman, and you may neither spend on me, nor sleep with me.'
This is indicated by the Statement of Allah: 'There is no blame on them if they arrange an amicable settlement between them both, and (such) settlement is better.' (Surah 4: Ayah 128)
Hadith - 141
Narrated Jabir: We used to practice coitus interruptus during the lifetime of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ).
Hadith - 142
Narrated Jabir: "We used to practice coitus interruptus while the Qur'an was being revealed." Jabir added: "We used to practice coitus interruptus during the lifetime of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) while the Qur'an was being Revealed."
Hadith - 143
Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri: We got female captives in the war booty and we used to do coitus interruptus with them. So we asked Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) about it and he said, "Do you really do that?" repeating the question thrice, "There is no soul that is destined to exist but will come into existence, till the Day of Resurrection."
Hadith - 144
Narrated al-Qasim: Aisha said that whenever the Prophet (ﷺ) intended to go on a journey, he drew lots among his wives (so as to take one of them along with him). During one of his journeys the lot fell on `Aisha and Hafsa.
When night fell the Prophet (ﷺ) would ride beside `Aisha and talk with her. One night Hafsa said to `Aisha, "Won't you ride my camel tonight and I ride yours, so that you may see (me) and I see (you) (in new situation)?" `Aisha said, "Yes, (I agree.)"
So `Aisha rode, and then the Prophet (ﷺ) came towards `Aisha's camel on which Hafsa was riding. He greeted Hafsa and then proceeded (beside her) till they dismounted (on the way).
`Aisha missed him, and so, when they dismounted, she put her legs in the Idhkhir and said, "O Lord (Allah)! Send a scorpion or a snake to bite me for I am not to blame him (the Prophet (ﷺ))."
Hadith - 145
Narrated `Aisha: Sauda bint Zam`a gave up her turn to me (`Aisha), and so the Prophet (ﷺ) used to give me (`Aisha) both my day and the day of Sauda.
Hadith - 146
Narrated Anas: The tradition (of the Prophet) is that if someone marries a virgin and he has already a matron wife (with him), then he should stay with the virgin for seven days; and if someone marries a matron (and he has already a virgin wife with him) then he should stay with her for three days.
Hadith - 147
Narrated Anas: It is the Prophet's tradition that if someone marries a virgin and he has already a matron wife, then he should stay for seven days with her (the virgin) and then by turns; and if someone marries a matron and he has already a virgin wife then he should stay with her (the matron) for three days, and then by turns.
Hadith - 148
Narrated Anas bin Malik: The Prophet (ﷺ) used to pass by (have sexual relation with) all his wives in one night, and at that time he had nine wives.
Hadith - 149
Narrated `Aisha: Whenever Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) finished his `Asr prayer, he would enter upon his wives and stay with one of them. One day he went to Hafsa and stayed with her longer than usual.
Hadith - 150
Narrated `Aisha: that during his fatal ailment, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to ask his wives, "Where shall I stay tomorrow? Where shall I stay tomorrow?" He was looking forward to Aisha's turn.
So all his wives allowed him to stay where he wished, and he stayed at `Aisha's house till he died there.
`Aisha added: He died on the day of my usual turn at my house. Allah took him unto Him while his head was between my chest and my neck and his saliva was mixed with my saliva.
Hadith - 151
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: That `Umar entered upon Hafsa and said, "O my daughter! Do not be misled by the manners of her who is proud of her beauty because of the love of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) for her." By 'her', he meant `Aisha.
`Umar added, "Then I told that to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and he smiled (on hearing that)."
Hadith - 152
Narrated Asma: Some lady said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! My husband has another wife, so it is sinful of me to claim that he has given me what he has not given me (in order to tease her)?"
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The one who pretends that he has been given what he has not been given, is just like the (false) one who wears two garments of falsehood."
Hadith - 153
Narrated `Abdullah bin Masud: The Prophet said, "There is none having a greater sense of Ghira than Allah. And for that He has forbidden the doing of evil actions (illegal sexual intercourse etc.) There is none who likes to be praised more than Allah does."
Hadith - 154
Narrated `Aisha: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "O followers of Muhammad! There is none, who has a greater sense of Ghira (self-respect) than Allah, so He has forbidden that His slave commits illegal sexual intercourse or His slave girl commits illegal sexual intercourse.
O followers of Muhammad! If you but knew what I know, you would laugh less and weep more."
Hadith - 155
Narrated Asma': I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "There is nothing (none) having a greater sense of Ghira (self-respect) than Allah." And narrated Abu Huraira that he heard the Prophet (saying the same).
Hadith - 156
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet said, "Allah has a sense of Ghira, and Allah's sense of Ghira is provoked when a believer does something which Allah has prohibited."
Hadith - 157
Narrated Asma' bint Abu Bakr: When Az-Zubair married me, he had no real property or any slave or anything else except a camel which drew water from the well, and his horse.
I used to feed his horse with fodder and drew water and sew the bucket for drawing it, and prepare the dough, but I did not know how to bake bread. So our Ansari neighbors used to bake bread for me, and they were honorable ladies.
I used to carry the date stones on my head from Zubair's land given to him by Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and this land was two third Farsakh (about two miles) from my house.
One day, while I was coming with the date stones on my head, I met Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) along with some Ansari people. He called me and then, (directing his camel to kneel down) said, "Ikh! Ikh!" so as to make me ride behind him (on his camel).
I felt shy to travel with the men and remembered Az-Zubair and his sense of Ghira, as he was one of those people who had the greatest sense of Ghira. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) noticed that I felt shy, so he proceeded.
I came to Az-Zubair and said, "I met Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) while I was carrying a load of date stones on my head, and he had some companions with him. He made his camel kneel down so that I might ride, but I felt shy in his presence and remembered your sense of Ghira."
On that, Az-Zubair said, "By Allah, your carrying the date stones (and you being seen by the Prophet (ﷺ) in such a state) is more shameful to me than your riding with him."
(I continued serving in this way) till Abu Bakr sent me a servant to look after the horse, whereupon I felt as if he had set me free.
Hadith - 158
Narrated Anas: While the Prophet (ﷺ) was in the house of one of his wives, one of the mothers of the believers sent a meal in a dish. The wife at whose house the Prophet (ﷺ) was, struck the hand of the servant, causing the dish to fall and break.
The Prophet (ﷺ) gathered the broken pieces of the dish and then started collecting on them the food which had been in the dish and said, "Your mother (my wife) felt jealous."
Then he detained the servant till a (sound) dish was brought from the wife at whose house he was. He gave the sound dish to the wife whose dish had been broken and kept the broken one at the house where it had been broken.
Hadith - 159
Narrated Jabir: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I entered Paradise and saw a palace and asked whose palace is this? They (the Angels) said, 'This palace belongs to `Umar bin Al-Khattab.'
I intended to enter it, and nothing stopped me except my knowledge about your sense of Ghira (self-respect (O `Umar))."
`Umar said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Let my father and mother be sacrificed for you! O Allah's Prophet! How dare I think of my Ghira (self-respect) being offended by you?"
Hadith - 160
Narrated Abu Huraira: While we were sitting with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), (he) Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "While I was sleeping, I saw a woman performing ablution beside a palace. I asked, 'Whose palace is this?' It was said, 'This palace belongs to `Umar.' Then I remembered his sense of Ghira and returned."
On that, `Umar started weeping in that gathering and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! How dare I think of my self-respect being offended by you?"
Hadith - 161
Narrated Aisha: That Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said to her, "I know when you are pleased with me or angry with me." I said, "Whence do you know that?"
He said, "When you are pleased with me, you say, 'No, by the Lord of Muhammad,' but when you are angry with me, then you say, 'No, by the Lord of Abraham.'"
Thereupon I said, "Yes (you are right), but by Allah, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), I leave nothing but your name."
Hadith - 162
Narrated `Aisha: I never felt so jealous of any wife of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as I did of Khadija, because Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to remember and praise her too often and because it was revealed to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) that he should give her (Khadija) the glad tidings of her having a palace of Qasab in Paradise.
Hadith - 163
Narrated Al-Miswar bin Makhrama: I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) who was on the pulpit, saying, "Banu Hisham bin Al-Mughira have requested me to allow them to marry their daughter to `Ali bin Abu Talib, but I don't give permission, and will not give permission unless `Ali bin Abi Talib divorces my daughter in order to marry their daughter, because Fatima is a part of my body, and I hate what she hates to see, and what hurts her, hurts me."
Hadith - 164
Narrated Anas: I will narrate to you a Hadith I heard from Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and none other than I will tell you of it.
I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "From among the portents of the Hour are the following: Religious knowledge will be taken away; General ignorance (in religious matters) will increase; illegal Sexual intercourse will prevail: Drinking of alcoholic drinks will prevail.
Men will decrease in number, and women will increase in number, so much so that fifty women will be looked after by one man."
Hadith - 165
Narrated `Uqba bin 'Amir: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Beware of entering upon the ladies." A man from the Ansar said, "Allah's Apostle! What about Al-Hamw, the in-laws of the wife (the brothers of her husband or his nephews etc.)?"
The Prophet (ﷺ) replied: "The in-laws of the wife are death itself."
Hadith - 166
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "No man should stay with a lady in seclusion except in the presence of a Dhu-Mahram."
A man stood up and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! My wife has gone out intending to perform the Hajj and I have been enrolled (in the army) for such-and-such campaign." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Return and perform the Hajj with your wife."
Hadith - 167
Narrated Anas bin Malik: An Ansari woman came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and he took her aside and said (to her), "By Allah, you (Ansar) are the most beloved people to me."
Hadith - 168
Narrated Um Salama: that while the Prophet (ﷺ) was with her, there was an effeminate man in the house.
The effeminate man said to Um Salama's brother, `Abdullah bin Abi Umaiyya, "If Allah should make you conquer Ta'if tomorrow, I recommend that you take the daughter of Ghailan (in marriage) for (she is so fat) that she shows four folds of flesh when facing you and eight when she turns her back."
Thereupon the Prophet (ﷺ) said (to us), "This (effeminate man) should not enter upon you (anymore)."
Hadith - 169
Narrated `Aisha: The Prophet (ﷺ) was screening me with his Rida' (garment covering the upper part of the body) while I was looking at the Ethiopians who were playing in the courtyard of the mosque. (I continued watching) till I was satisfied.
So you may deduce from this event how a little girl (who has not reached the age of puberty) who is eager to enjoy amusement should be treated in this respect.
Hadith - 170
Narrated `Aisha: Once Sau`da bint Zam`a went out at night for some need, and `Umar saw her, and recognizing her, he said (to her), "By Allah, O Sa`da! You cannot hide yourself from us."
So she returned to the Prophet (ﷺ) and mentioned that to him while he was sitting in my dwelling taking his supper and holding a bone covered with meat in his hand.
Then the Divine Inspiration was revealed to him and when that state was over, he (the Prophet (ﷺ)) was saying: "O women! You have been allowed by Allah to go out for your needs."
Hadith - 171
Narrated Salim's father: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If the wife of anyone of you asks permission to go to the mosque, he should not forbid her."
Hadith - 172
Narrated `Aisha: My foster uncle came and asked permission (to enter) but I refused to admit him till I asked Allah's Apostle about that. He said, "He is your uncle, so allow him to come in."
I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! I have been suckled by a woman and not by a man." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "He is your uncle, so let him enter upon you."
And that happened after the order of Al-Hijab (compulsory veiling) was revealed. All things which become unlawful because of blood relations are unlawful because of the corresponding foster suckling relations.
Hadith - 173
Narrated `Abdullah bin Mas`ud: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "A woman should not look at or touch another woman to describe her to her husband in such a way as if he was actually looking at her."
Hadith - 174
Narrated `Abdullah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "A woman should not look at or touch another woman to describe her to her husband in such a way as if he was actually looking at her."
Hadith - 175
Narrated Abu Huraira: (The Prophet) Solomon son of (the Prophet) David said, "Tonight I will go round (i.e. have sexual relations with) one hundred women (my wives) everyone of whom will deliver a male child who will fight in Allah's Cause."
On that, an Angel said to him, "Say: 'If Allah wills.'" But Solomon did not say it and forgot to say it. Then he had sexual relations with them but none of them delivered any child, except one who delivered a half person.
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If Solomon had said: 'If Allah wills,' Allah would have fulfilled his (above) desire and that saying would have made him more hopeful."
Hadith - 176
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah: The Prophet (ﷺ) disliked that one should go to one's family at night (on returning from a journey).
Hadith - 177
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "When anyone of you is away from his house for a long time, he should not return to his family at night."
Hadith - 178
Narrated Jabir: I was with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) in a Ghazwa, and when we returned, I wanted to hurry, while riding a slow camel. A rider came behind me. I looked back and saw that the rider was Allah's Messenger (ﷺ).
He said (to me), "What makes you in such a hurry?" I replied, "I am newly married." He said, "Did you marry a virgin or a matron?" I replied, "(Not a virgin but) a matron." He said, "Why didn't you marry a young girl with whom you could play and who could play with you?"
Then when we approached (Medina) and were going to enter (it), the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Wait till you enter (your homes) at night (in the first part of the night) so that the ladies with unkempt hair may comb their hair, and those whose husbands have been absent (for a long time) may shave their pubic hair."
(The sub-narrator, Hashim said: A reliable narrator told me that the Prophet (ﷺ) added in this Hadith: "(Seek to beget) children! Children, O Jabir.")
Hadith - 179
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If you enter (your town) at night (after coming from a journey), do not enter upon your family till the woman whose husband was absent (from the house) shaves her pubic hair and the woman with unkempt hair, combs her hair"
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) further said, "(O Jabir!) Seek to have offspring, seek to have offspring."
Hadith - 180
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah: We were with the Prophet (ﷺ) in Ghazwa, and when we returned and approached Medina, I wanted to hurry while riding a slow camel.
A rider overtook me and pricked my camel with a spear which he had, whereupon my camel started running as fast as any other fast camel you may see. I looked back, and behold, the rider was Allah's Messenger (ﷺ).
I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! I am newly married." He asked, "Have you got married?" I replied, "Yes." He said, "A virgin or a matron?" I replied, "(Not a virgin) but a matron." He said, "Why didn't you marry a young girl so that you could play with her and she with you?"
When we reached (near Medina) and were going to enter it, the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Wait till you enter your home early in the night so that the lady whose hair is unkempt may comb her hair and that the lady whose husband has been away may shave her pubic hair."
Hadith - 181
Narrated Abu Hazim: The people differed about the type of treatment which had been given to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) on the day (of the battle) of Uhud. So they asked Sahl bin Sa`d As-Sa`idi who was the only surviving Companion (of the Prophet) at Medina.
He replied, "Nobody is left at Medina who knows it better than I. Fatima was washing the blood off his face and `Ali was bringing water in his shield, and then a mat of datepalm leaves was burnt and (the ash) was inserted into the wound."
Hadith - 182
Narrated `Abdur-Rahman bin `Abis: I heard Ibn `Abbas answering a man who asked him, "Did you attend the prayer of `Id al-Adha or `Id al-Fitr with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)?"
Ibn `Abbas replied, "Yes, and had it not been for my close relationship with him, I could not have offered it." (That was because of his young age).
Ibn `Abbas further said, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) went out and offered the `Id prayer and then delivered the sermon." Ibn `Abbas did not mention anything about the Adhan (the call for prayer) or the Iqama.
He added, "Then the Prophet (ﷺ) went to the women and instructed them and gave them religious advice and ordered them to give alms, and I saw them reaching out (their hands to) their ears and necks (to take off the earrings and necklaces, etc) and throwing (it) towards Bilal. Then the Prophet (ﷺ) returned with Bilal to his house."
Hadith - 183
Narrated `Aisha: Abu Bakr admonished me and poked me with his hands in the flank, and nothing stopped me from moving at that time except the position of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) whose head was on my thigh.