Hadith - 1
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar: That he had divorced his wife while she was menstruating during the lifetime of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). `Umar bin Al-Khattab asked Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) about that.
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Order him (your son) to take her back and keep her till she is clean, and then to wait till she gets her next period and becomes clean again, whereupon, if he wishes to keep her, he can do so, and if he wishes to divorce her he can divorce her before having sexual intercourse with her; and that is the prescribed period which Allah has fixed for the women meant to be divorced."
Hadith - 2
Narrated Anas bin Seereen: Ibn `Umar said: "I divorced my wife while she was menstruating. `Umar mentioned that to the Prophet. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, (to my father), "Let your son take her back."
I asked (Ibn `Umar), "Is such a divorce counted (i.e. as one legal divorce)?" Ibn `Umar said, "Of course."
Narrated Yunus bin Jubair: Ibn `Umar said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) said to `Umar, 'Order him (Ibn `Umar) to take her back.'" I asked, "Is such a divorce counted (as one legal divorce)?" Ibn `Umar said, "What do you think if someone becomes helpless and foolish?"
Hadith - 3
Narrated Ibn `Umar: (Divorcing my wife during her menses) was counted as one legal divorce.
Hadith - 4
Narrated Al-Awza'i: I asked Az-Zuhri, "Which of the wives of the Prophet (ﷺ) sought refuge with Allah from him?"
He said, "I was told by 'Urwa that `Aisha said, 'When the daughter of Al-Jaun was brought to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (as his bride) and he went near her, she said, "I seek refuge with Allah from you." He said, "You have sought refuge with The Great; return to your family."'
Hadith - 5
Narrated Abu Usaid: We went out with the Prophet (ﷺ) to a garden called Ash-Shaut, till we reached two walls between which we sat down. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Sit here," and went in (the garden).
The Jauniyya (a lady from Bani Jaun) had been brought and lodged in a house in a date-palm garden in the home of Umaima bint An-Nu`man bin Sharahil, and her wet nurse was with her.
When the Prophet (ﷺ) entered upon her, he said to her, "Give me yourself (in marriage) as a gift." She said, "Can a princess give herself in marriage to an ordinary man?"
The Prophet (ﷺ) raised his hand to pat her so that she might become tranquil. She said, "I seek refuge with Allah from you." He said, "You have sought refuge with One Who gives refuge."
Then the Prophet (ﷺ) came out to us and said, "O Abu Usaid! Give her two white linen dresses to wear and let her go back to her family."
Hadith - 6
Narrated Sahl and Abu Usaid: The Prophet (ﷺ) married Umaima bint Sharahil, and when she was brought to him, he stretched his hand towards her. It seemed that she disliked that, whereupon the Prophet (ﷺ) ordered Abu Usaid to prepare her and to provide her with two white linen dresses.
Hadith - 7
Narrated Sahl bin Sa`d: similarly as above.
Hadith - 8
Narrated Abi Ghallab Yunus bin Jubair: I asked Ibn `Umar, "(What is said regarding) a man who divorces his wife during her period?" He said, "Do you know Ibn `Umar? Ibn `Umar divorced his wife while she was menstruating.
`Umar then went to the Prophet (ﷺ) and mentioned that to him. The Prophet (ﷺ) ordered him to take her back and when she became clean, he could divorce her if he wanted."
I asked (Ibn `Umar), "Was that divorce counted as one legal divorce?" He said, "If one becomes helpless and foolish (will he be excused? Of course not)."
Hadith - 9
Narrated Sahl bin Sa`d As-Sa`idi: Uwaimir Al-`Ajlani came to `Asim bin Adi Al-Ansari and asked, "O `Asim! Tell me, if a man sees his wife with another man, should he kill him, whereupon you would kill him in Qisas, or what should he do? O `Asim! Please ask Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) about that."
`Asim asked Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) about that. Allah's Apostle disliked that question and considered it disgraceful. What `Asim heard from Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was hard on him.
When he returned to his family, 'Uwaimir came to him and said, "O `Asim! What did Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) say to you?" `Asim said, "You never bring me any good. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) disliked to hear the problem which I asked him about."
'Uwaimir said, "By Allah, I will not leave the matter till I ask him about it."
So 'Uwaimir proceeded till he came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) who was in the midst of the people and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! If a man finds with his wife another man, should he kill him, whereupon you would kill him (in Qisas), or otherwise, what should he do?"
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Allah has revealed something concerning the question of you and your wife. Go and bring her here."
So they both carried out the judgment of Lian, while I was present among the people (as a witness). When both of them had finished, 'Uwaimir said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! If I should now keep my wife with me, then I have told a lie".
Then he pronounced his decision to divorce her thrice before Allah's Apostle ordered him to do so. (Ibn Shihab said, "That was the tradition for all those who are involved in a case of Lian").
Hadith - 10
Narrated `Aisha: The wife of Rifa`a Al-Qurazi came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Rifa`a divorced me irrevocably. After him, I married `Abdur-Rahman bin Az-Zubair Al-Qurazi who proved to be impotent."
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said to her, "Perhaps you want to return to Rifa`a? Nay (you cannot return to Rifa`a) until you and `Abdur-Rahman consummate your marriage."
Hadith - 11
Narrated `Aisha: A man divorced his wife thrice (by expressing his decision to divorce her thrice), then she married another man who also divorced her. The Prophet (ﷺ) was asked if she could legally marry the first husband (or not).
The Prophet (ﷺ) replied, "No, she cannot marry the first husband unless the second husband consummates his marriage with her, just as the first husband had done."
Hadith - 12
Narrated `Aisha: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) gave us the option (to remain with him or to be divorced) and we selected Allah and His Apostle. So, giving us that option was not regarded as divorce.
Hadith - 13
Narrated Masruq: I asked `Aisha about the option. She said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) gave us the option. Do you think that option was considered as a divorce?" I said, "It matters little to me if I give my wife the option once or a hundred times after she has chosen me."
Hadith - 14
Nafi' said: When Ibn 'Umar was asked about a person who had given three divorces, he said, "Would that you gave one or two divorces, for the Prophet (ﷺ) ordered me to do so.
If you give three divorces then she cannot be lawful for you until she has married another husband (and is divorced by him)."
Hadith - 15
Narrated `Aisha: A man divorced his wife and she married another man who proved to be impotent and divorced her. She could not get her satisfaction from him, and after a while he divorced her.
Then she came to the Prophet and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! My first husband divorced me and then I married another man who entered upon me to consummate his marriage, but he proved to be impotent and did not approach me except once during which he benefited nothing from me. Can I remarry my first husband in this case?"
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "It is unlawful to marry your first husband till the other husband consummates his marriage with you."
Hadith - 16
Narrated Sa`id bin Jubair: That he heard Ibn `Abbas saying, "If a man makes his wife unlawful for him, it does not mean that she is divorced." He added, "Indeed in the Messenger of Allah, you have a good example to follow."
Hadith - 17
Narrated `Ubaid bin `Umar: I heard `Aisha saying, "The Prophet (ﷺ) used to stay for a long while with Zainab bint Jahsh and drink honey at her house.
So Hafsa and I decided that if the Prophet (ﷺ) came to anyone of us, she should say to him, "I detect the smell of Maghafir (a nasty smelling gum) in you. Have you eaten Maghafir?'"
So the Prophet (ﷺ) visited one of them and she said to him similarly. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Never mind, I have taken some honey at the house of Zainab bint Jahsh, but I shall never drink of it anymore."
So there was revealed: 'O Prophet! Why do you ban (for you) that which Allah has made lawful for you ... If you two (wives of Prophet) turn in repentance to Allah,' (Surah 66: Ayat 1-4) addressing Aisha and Hafsa. 'When the Prophet (ﷺ) disclosed a matter in confidence to some of his wives' (Surah 66: Ayah 3), namely his saying: "But I have taken some honey."
Hadith - 18
Narrated `Aisha: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was fond of honey and sweet edible things and (it was his habit) that after finishing the `Asr prayer, he would visit his wives and stay with one of them at that time.
Once he went to Hafsa, the daughter of `Umar, and stayed with her more than usual. I got jealous and asked the reason for that.
I was told that a lady of her folk had given her a skin filled with honey as a present, and that she made a syrup from it and gave it to the Prophet (ﷺ) to drink (and that was the reason for the delay). I said, "By Allah we will play a trick on him (to prevent him from doing so)."
So I said to Sau`da bint Zam`a, "The Prophet (ﷺ) will approach you, and when he comes near you, say: 'Have you taken Maghafir (a bad-smelling gum)?' He will say, 'No.' Then say to him: 'Then what is this bad smell which I smell from you?'
He will say to you, "Hafsa made me drink honey syrup." Then say: 'Perhaps the bees of that honey had sucked the juice of the tree of Al-`Urfut.' I shall also say the same. O you, Safiyya, say the same."
Later Sau`da said, "By Allah, as soon as he (the Prophet (ﷺ)) stood at the door, I was about to say to him what you had ordered me to say because I was afraid of you."
So when the Prophet (ﷺ) came near Sau`da, she said to him, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Have you taken Maghafir?" He said, "No." She said, "Then what is this bad smell which I detect on you?" He said, "Hafsa made me drink honey syrup."
She said, "Perhaps its bees had sucked the juice of Al-`Urfut tree." When he came to me, I also said the same, and when he went to Safiyya, she also said the same.
And when the Prophet (ﷺ) again went to Hafsa, she said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Shall I give you more of that drink?" He said, "I am not in need of it." Sawda said, "By Allah, we deprived him (of it)." I said to her, "Keep quiet."
Hadith - 19
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Allah has forgiven my followers the evil thoughts that occur to their minds, as long as such thoughts are not put into action or uttered."
And Qatada said, "If someone divorces his wife just in his mind, such an unuttered divorce has no effect."
Hadith - 20
Narrated Jabir: A man from the tribe of Bani Aslam came to the Prophet (ﷺ) while he was in the mosque and said, "I have committed illegal sexual intercourse." The Prophet (ﷺ) turned his face to the other side.
The man turned towards the side towards which the Prophet (ﷺ) had turned his face, and gave four witnesses against himself.
On that, the Prophet (ﷺ) called him and said, "Are you insane?" (He added), "Are you married?" The man said, 'Yes."
On that, the Prophet (ﷺ) ordered him to be stoned to the death in the Musalla (a praying place). When the stones hit him with their sharp edges, he fled, but he was caught at Al-Harra and then killed.
Hadith - 21
Narrated Abu Huraira: A man from Bani Aslam came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) while he was in the mosque and called (the Prophet (ﷺ)) saying, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! I have committed illegal sexual intercourse."
On that, the Prophet (ﷺ) turned his face from him to the other side, whereupon the man moved to the side towards which the Prophet (ﷺ) had turned his face, and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! I have committed illegal sexual intercourse."
The Prophet (ﷺ) turned his face (from him) to the other side whereupon the man moved to the side towards which the Prophet (ﷺ) had turned his face, and repeated his statement.
The Prophet (ﷺ) turned his face (from him) to the other side again. The man moved again (and repeated his statement) for the fourth time.
So when the man had given witness four times against himself, the Prophet (ﷺ) called him and said, "Are you insane?" He replied, "No." The Prophet (ﷺ) then said (to his companions), "Go and stone him to death." The man was a married one.
Jabir bin `Abdullah Al-Ansari said: I was one of those who stoned him. We stoned him at the Musalla (`Id praying place) in Medina. When the stones hit him with their sharp edges, he fled, but we caught him at Al-Harra and stoned him till he died.
Hadith - 22
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: The wife of Thabit bin Qais came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! I do not blame Thabit for defects in his character or his religion, but I, being a Muslim, dislike to behave in un-Islamic manner (if I remain with him)."
On that, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said (to her), "Will you give back the garden which your husband has given you (as Mahr)?" She said, "Yes."
Then the Prophet (ﷺ) said to Thabit, "O Thabit! Accept your garden, and divorce her once."
Hadith - 23
Narrated `Ikrima: The sister of `Abdullah bin Ubai narrated (the above narration) with the addition that the Prophet (ﷺ) said to Thabit's wife, "Will you return his garden?" She said, "Yes," and returned it, and (then) the Prophet ordered Thabit to divorce her.
Hadith - 24
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: The wife of Thabit bin Qais came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! I do not blame Thabit for any defects in his character or his religion, but I cannot endure to live with him."
On that, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Will you return his garden to him?" She said, "Yes."
Hadith - 25
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: The wife of Thabit bin Qais bin Shammas came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! I do not blame Thabit for any defects in his character or his religion, but I am afraid that I (being a Muslim) may become unthankful for Allah's Blessings."
On that, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said (to her), "Will you return his garden to him?" She said, "Yes." So she returned his garden to him and the Prophet (ﷺ) told him to divorce her.
Hadith - 26
Narrated `Ikrima: "that Jamila..." Then he related the whole Hadith (as above).
Hadith - 27
Narrated Al-Miswar bin Makhrama Az-Zuhri: I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "Banu Al-Mughira have asked my leave to let `Ali marry their daughter, but I give no leave to this effect."
Hadith - 28
Narrated `Aisha (the wife of the Prophet): Three traditions were established concerning situations in which Barira was involved: When she was manumitted, she was given the option to keep her husband or leave him.
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The wala is for the one who manumits."
Once Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) entered the house while some meat was being cooked in a pot, but only bread and some soup of the house were placed before him. He said, "Don't I see the pot containing meat?"
They said, "Yes, but that meat was given to Barira in charity (by someone), and you do not eat what is given in charity." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "That meat is alms for her, but for us it is a present."
Hadith - 29
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: I saw him as a slave (namely, Barira's husband).
Hadith - 30
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: That was Mughith, the slave of Bani so-and-so, i.e., Barira's husband, as if I am now looking at him following her (Barira) along the streets of Medina.
Hadith - 31
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: Barira's husband was a black slave called Mughith, the slave of Bani so-and-so - as if I am seeing him now, walking behind her along the streets of Medina.
Hadith - 32
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: Barira's husband was a slave called Mughith, as if I am seeing him now, going behind Barira and weeping with his tears flowing down his beard.
The Prophet (ﷺ) said to `Abbas, "O `Abbas! Are you not astonished at the love of Mughith for Barira and the hatred of Barira for Mughith?"
The Prophet (ﷺ) then said to Barira, "Why don't you return to him?" She said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Do you order me to do so?" He said, "No, I only intercede for him." She said, "I am not in need of him."
Hadith - 33
Narrated Al-Aswad: Aisha intended to buy Barira, but her masters stipulated that her wala would be for them. Aisha mentioned that to the Prophet (ﷺ) who said (to `Aisha), "Buy and manumit her, for the wala is for the one who manumits."
Once some meat was brought to the Prophet (ﷺ) and was said, "This meat was given in charity to Barira." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "It is an object of charity for Barira and a gift for us."
Narrated Adam: Shu`ba related the same Hadith and added: Barira was given the option regarding her husband.
Hadith - 34
Narrated Nafi`: Whenever Ibn `Umar was asked about marrying a Christian lady or a Jewess, he would say: "Allah has made it unlawful for the believers to marry ladies who ascribe partners in worship to Allah, and I do not know of a greater thing, as regards to ascribing partners in worship etc, to Allah, than that a lady should say that Jesus is her Lord although he is just one of Allah's slaves."
Hadith - 35
Narrated Ibn 'Abbas: The pagans were of two kinds as regards their relationship to the Prophet and the Believers.
Some of them were those with whom the Prophet was at war and used to fight against, and they used to fight him; the others were those with whom the Prophet (ﷺ) made a treaty, and neither did the Prophet (ﷺ) fight them, nor did they fight him.
If a lady from the first group of pagans emigrated towards the Muslims, her hand would not be asked in marriage unless she got the menses and then became clean.
When she became clean, it would be lawful for her to get married, and if her husband emigrated too before she got married, then she would be returned to him.
If any slave or female slave emigrated from them to the Muslims, then they would be considered free persons (not slaves) and they would have the same rights as given to other emigrants.
The narrator then mentioned about the pagans involved with the Muslims in a treaty, the same as occurs in Mujahid's narration. If a male slave or a female slave emigrated from such pagans as had made a treaty with the Muslims, they would not be returned, but their prices would be paid (to the pagans).
Hadith - 36
Narrated Ibn 'Abbas: Qariba, the daughter of Abi Umaiyya, was the wife of 'Umar bin Al-Khattab. 'Umar divorced her and then Mu'awiyya bin Abi Sufyan married her.
Similarly, Um Al-Hakam, the daughter of Abi Sufyan was the wife of 'Iyad bin Ghanm Al-Fihri. He divorced her and then 'Abdullah bin 'Uthman Al-Thaqafi married her.
Hadith - 37
Narrated `Aisha (the wife of the Prophet): When believing women came to the Prophet (ﷺ) as emigrants, he used to test them in accordance with the order of Allah, 'O you who believe! When believing women come to you as emigrants, examine them ...' (Surah 60: Ayah 10)
So if anyone of those believing women accepted the above mentioned conditions, she accepted the conditions of faith.
When they agreed on those conditions and confessed that with their tongues, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) would say to them, "Go, I have accepted your oath of allegiance (for Islam)."
By Allah, and the hand of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) never touched the hand of any woman, but he only used to take their pledge of allegiance orally.
By Allah, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) did not take the pledge of allegiance of the women except in accordance with what Allah had ordered him. When he accepted their pledge of allegiance he would say to them, "I have accepted your oath of allegiance."
Hadith - 38
Narrated Anas bin Malik: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) took an oath that he would abstain from his wives, and at that time his leg had been sprained (dislocated). So he stayed in the Mashruba (an attic room) of his for 29 days.
Then he came down, and they (the people) said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! You took an oath to abstain from your wives for one month." He said, "The month is of twenty nine days."
Hadith - 39
Narrated Nafi`: Ibn `Umar used to say about the Ila which Allah defined (in the Holy Book), "If the period of Ila expires, then the husband is either to retain his wife in a handsome manner or to divorce her as Allah has ordered."
Hadith - 40
Ibn `Umar added: "When the period of four months has expired, the husband should be put in prison so that he should divorce his wife, but the divorce does not occur unless the husband himself declares it.
This has been mentioned by `Uthman, `Ali, Abu Ad-Darda, `Aisha and twelve other companions of the Prophet (ﷺ).
Hadith - 41
Narrated Yazid (the Maula of Munba'ith): The Prophet (ﷺ) was asked regarding the case of a lost sheep. He said, "You should take it, because it is for you, or for your brother, or for the wolf."
Then he was asked about a lost camel. He got angry and his face became red and he said (to the questioner), "You have nothing to do with it; it has its feet and its water container with it; it can go on drinking water and eating trees till its owner meets it."
And then the Prophet (ﷺ) was asked about a Luqata (money found by somebody). He said, "Remember and recognize its tying material and its container, and make public announcement about it for one year. If somebody comes and identifies it (then give it to him), otherwise add it to your property."
Hadith - 42
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) performed the Tawaf (around the Ka`ba) while riding his camel, and every time he reached the corner (of the Black Stone) he pointed at it with his hand and said, "Allahu Akbar."
Zainab said: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "An opening has been made in the wall of Gog and Magog like this and this," forming the number 90 (with his thumb and index finger).
Hadith - 43
Narrated Abu Huraira: Abul Qasim (the Prophet (ﷺ)) said, "There is an hour (or a moment) of particular significance on Friday. If it happens that a Muslim is offering a prayer and invoking Allah for some good at that very moment, Allah will grant him his request."
(The sub-narrator placed the top of his finger on the palm of the other hand between the middle finger and the little one).
Hadith - 44
Narrated Anas bin Malik: During the lifetime of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) a Jew attacked a girl and took some silver ornaments she was wearing and crushed her head.
Her relative brought her to the Prophet (ﷺ) while she was in her last breaths, and she was unable to speak.
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) asked her, "Who has hit you? So-and-so?", mentioning somebody other than her murderer. She moved her head, indicating denial. The Prophet (ﷺ) mentioned another person other than the murderer, and she again moved her head indicating denial.
Then he asked, "Was it so-and-so?", mentioning the name of her killer. She nodded, agreeing. Then Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) ordered that the head of that Jew be crushed between two stones.
Hadith - 45
Narrated Ibn `Umar: I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "Afflictions will emerge from here," pointing towards the East.
Hadith - 46
Narrated `Abdullah bin Abi `Aufa: We were with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) on a journey, and when the sun set, he said to a man, "Get down and prepare a drink of Sawiq for me." The man said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Will you wait till it is evening?"
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) again said, "Get down and prepare a drink of Sawiq." The man said, "O Allah's Apostle! Will you wait till it is evening, for it is still daytime."
The Prophet (ﷺ) again said, "Get down and prepare a drink of Sawiq." So the third time the man got down and prepared a drink of sawiq for him.
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) drank thereof and pointed with his hand towards the East, saying, "When you see the night falling from this side, then a fasting person should break his fast."
Hadith - 47
Narrated 'Abdullah bin Mas'ud: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The call (or the Adhan) of Bilal should not stop you from taking the Suhur meals, for Bilal calls (or pronounces the Adhan) so that the one who is offering the night prayer should take a rest, and he does not indicate the daybreak or dawn."
The narrator, Yazid, described (how dawn breaks) by stretching out his hands and then separating them wide apart.
Hadith - 48
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The example of a miser and a generous person is like that of two persons wearing iron cloaks from the breast upto the neck.
When the generous person spends, the iron cloak enlarges and spreads over his skin so-much-so that it covers his fingertips and obliterates his tracks.
As for the miser, as soon as he thinks of spending, every ring of the iron cloak sticks to its place (against his body) and he tries to expand it, but it does not expand." The Prophet (ﷺ) pointed with his hand towards his throat.
Hadith - 49
Narrated Anas bin Malik: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Shall I tell you of the best families among the Ansar?" They (the people) said, "Yes, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)!"
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The best are Banu An-Najjar, and after them are Banu `Abdil Ash-hal, and after them are Banu Al-Harith bin Al-Khazraj, and after them are Banu Sa`ida."
The Prophet (ﷺ) then moved his hand by closing his fingers and then opening them like one throwing something, and then said, "Anyhow, there is good in all the families of the Ansar."
Hadith - 50
Narrated Sahl bin Sa`d As-Sa`idi (a companion of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)): Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), holding out his middle and index fingers, said, "My advent and the Hour's are like this (or like these)," namely, the period between his era and the Hour is like the distance between those two fingers, i.e., very short.
Hadith - 51
Narrated Ibn `Umar: The Prophet (holding out his ten fingers thrice), said, "The month is thus and thus and thus," namely thirty days.
Then (holding out his ten fingers twice and then nine fingers), he said, "It may be thus and thus and thus," namely twenty nine days. He meant once thirty days and once twenty nine days.
Hadith - 52
Narrated Abu Masud: The Prophet (ﷺ) pointed with his hand towards Yemen and said twice, "Faith is there," and then pointed towards the East, and said, "Verily, sternness and mercilessness are the qualities of those who are busy with their camels and pay no attention to their religion, where the two sides of the head of Satan will appear," namely, the tribes of Rabi'a and Mudar.
Hadith - 53
Narrated Sahl: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "I and the one who looks after an orphan will be like this in Paradise," showing his middle and index fingers and separating them.