Hadith - 54
Narrated Abu Huraira: A man came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! A black child has been born for me." The Prophet asked him, "Have you got camels?" The man said, "Yes."
The Prophet (ﷺ) asked him, "What color are they?" The man replied, "Red." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Is there a grey one among them?" The man replied, "Yes." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Whence comes that?" He said, "May be it is because of heredity."
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "May be your latest son has this color because of heredity."
Hadith - 55
Narrated `Abdullah: An Ansari man accused his wife (of committing illegal sexual intercourse). The Prophet (ﷺ) made both of them take the oath of Lian, and separated them from each other (by divorce).
Hadith - 56
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: Hilal bin Umaiyya accused his wife of illegal sexual intercourse and came to the Prophet (ﷺ) to bear witness (against her), (taking the oath of Lian).
The Prophet (ﷺ) was saying, "Allah knows that either of you is a liar. Will anyone of you repent (to Allah)?" Then the lady got up and gave her witness.
Hadith - 57
Narrated Sahl bin Sa`d As-Sa`idi: 'Uwaimir Al-Ajlani came to `Asim bin Adi Al-Ansari and said to him, "O `Asim! Suppose a man saw another man with his wife, would he kill him whereupon you would kill him; or what should he do? Please, O `Asim, ask about this on my behalf."
`Asim asked Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) about it. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) disliked that question and considered it disgraceful. What `Asim heard from Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was hard on him.
When `Asim returned to his family, 'Uwaimir came to him and said, "O `Asim! What did Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) say to you?" `Asim said to 'Uwaimir, "You never bring me any good. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) disliked the problem which I asked him about."
'Uwaimir said, "By Allah, I will not give up this matter until I ask the Prophet (ﷺ) about it."
So 'Uwaimir proceeded till he came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) in the midst of people, and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! If a man sees another man with his wife, would he kill him, whereupon you would kill him, or what should he do?"
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Allah has revealed some decree as regards you and your wives' case. Go and bring her." So they carried out the process of Lian while I was present among the people with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ).
When they had finished their Lian, 'Uwaimir said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! If I should now keep her with me as a wife, then I have told a lie." So he divorced her thrice before Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) ordered him.
(Ibn Shihab said: So divorce was the tradition for all those who were involved in a case of Lian).
Hadith - 58
Narrated Ibn Juraij: Ibn Shihab informed me of Lian and the tradition related to it, referring to the narration of Sahl bin Sa`d, the brother of Bani Sa`idi.
He said, "An Ansari man came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and said, 'O Allah's Apostle! If a man saw another man with his wife, should he kill him, or what should he do?'
So Allah revealed concerning his affair what is mentioned in the Holy Qur'an about the affair of those involved in a case of Lian. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Allah has given His verdict regarding you and your wife."
So they carried out Lian in the mosque while I was present there. When they had finished, the man said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! If I should now keep her with me as a wife then I have told a lie about her."
Then he divorced her thrice before Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) ordered him, when they had finished the Lian process. So he divorced her in front of the Prophet (ﷺ)."
Ibn Shihab added, "After their case, it became a tradition that a couple involved in a case of Lian should be separated by divorce. That lady was pregnant then, and later on her son was called by his mother's name.
The tradition concerning their inheritance was that she would be his heir and he would inherit of her property the share Allah had prescribed for him."
Ibn Shihab said that Sahl bin Sa`d As-Sa'idi said that the Prophet (ﷺ) said (in the above narration), "If that lady delivers a small red child like a lizard, then the lady has spoken the truth and the man was a liar, but if she delivers a child with black eyes and huge lips, then her husband has spoken the truth."
Then she delivered it in the shape one would dislike (as it proved her guilty).
Hadith - 59
Narrated Al-Qasim bin Muhammad: Ibn `Abbas said, "Once Lian was mentioned before the Prophet (ﷺ), whereupon `Asim bin Adi said something and went away. Then a man from his tribe came to him, complaining that he had found a man with his wife.
`Asim said, 'I have not been put to task except for my statement (about Lian).' `Asim took the man to the Prophet (ﷺ) and the man told him of the state in which he had found his wife.
The man was pale, thin, and of lank hair, while the other man whom he claimed he had seen with his wife, was brown, fat and had much flesh on his calves.
The Prophet (ﷺ) invoked, saying, 'O Allah! Reveal the truth.' So that lady delivered a child resembling the man whom her husband had mentioned he had found her with. The Prophet (ﷺ) then made them carry out Lian."
Then a man from that gathering asked Ibn `Abbas, "Was she the same lady regarding which the Prophet (ﷺ) had said, 'If I were to stone to death someone without witness, I would have stoned this lady'?"
Ibn `Abbas said, "No, that was another lady who, though being a Muslim, used to arouse suspicion by her outright misbehavior."
Hadith - 60
Narrated Sa`id bin Jubair: I asked Ibn `Umar, "(What is the verdict if) a man accuses his wife of illegal sexual intercourse?"
Ibn `Umar said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) separated (by divorce) the couple of Bani Al-Ajlan, and said, (to them), "Allah knows that one of you two is a liar; so will one of you repent?" But both of them refused.
He again said, "Allah knows that one of you two is a liar; so will one of you repent?" But both of them refused. So he separated them by divorce."
(Aiyub, a sub-narrator said: `Amr bin Dinar said to me, "There is something else in this Hadith which you have not mentioned. It goes thus: The man said, 'What about my money (i.e. the Mahr that I have given to my wife)?'
It was said, 'You have no right to restore any money, for if you have spoken the truth (as regards the accusation), you have also consummated your marriage with her; and if you have told a lie, you are less rightful to have your money back.')
Hadith - 61
Narrated Sa`id bin Jubair: I asked Ibn `Umar about those who were involved in a case of Lian. He said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) said to those who were involved in a case of Lian, 'Your accounts are with Allah. One of you two is a liar, and you (the husband) have no right over her (she is divorced).'
The man said, 'What about my property (Mahr)?' The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'You have no right to get back your property. If you have told the truth about her, then your property was for the consummation of your marriage with her; and if you told a lie about her, then you are less rightful to get your property back.'"
Sufyan, a sub-narrator said: I learned the Hadith from `Amr.
Narrated Aiyub: I heard Sa`id bin Jubair saying, "I asked Ibn `Umar, 'If a man (accuses his wife for an illegal sexual intercourse and) carries out the process of Lian (what will happen)?'
Ibn `Umar set two of his fingers apart. (Sufyan set his index finger and middle finger apart.)
Ibn `Umar said, 'The Prophet (ﷺ) separated the couple of Bani Al-Ajlan by divorce and said thrice, "Allah knows that one of you two is a liar; so will one of you repent (to Allah)?"'
Hadith - 62
Narrated Ibn `Umar: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) separated (divorced) the wife from her husband who accused her for an illegal sexual intercourse, and made them take the oath of Lian.
Hadith - 63
Narrated Ibn `Umar: The Prophet (ﷺ) made an Ansari man and his wife carry out Lian, and then separated them by divorce.
Hadith - 64
Narrated Ibn `Umar: The Prophet (ﷺ) made a man and his wife carry out Lian, and the husband repudiated her child. So the Prophet got them separated (by divorce) and decided that the child belonged to the mother only.
Hadith - 65
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: Those involved in a case of Lian were mentioned before Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). `Asim bin Adi said something about that and then left.
Later on, a man from his tribe came to him and told him that he had found another man with his wife. On that, `Asim said, "I have not been put to task except for what I have said (about Lian)."
`Asim took the man to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and he told him of the state in which he found his wife. The man was pale, thin and lank-haired, while the other man whom he had found with his wife was brown, fat with thick calves and curly hair.
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "O Allah! Reveal the truth." Then the lady delivered a child resembling the man whom her husband had mentioned he had found with her. So Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) ordered them to carry out Lian.
A man from that gathering said to Ibn `Abbas, "Was she the same lady regarding whom Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, 'If I were to stone to death someone without witnesses, I would have stoned this lady'?"
Ibn `Abbas said, "No, that was another lady who, though being a Muslim, used to arouse suspicion because of her outright misbehavior."
Hadith - 66
Narrated `Aisha: Rifa`a Al-Qurazi married a lady and then divorced her, whereupon she married another man. She came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said that her new husband did not approach her, and that he was completely impotent.
The Prophet (ﷺ) said (to her), "No (you cannot remarry your first husband) till you taste the second husband and he tastes you (i.e. till he consummates his marriage with you)."
Hadith - 67
Narrated Um Salama (the wife of the Prophet): A lady from Bani Aslam, called Subai'a, became a widow while she was pregnant.
Abu As-Sanabil bin Ba'kak demanded her hand in marriage, but she refused to marry him and said, "By Allah, I cannot marry him unless I have completed one of the two prescribed periods."
About ten days later (after having delivered her child), she went to the Prophet (ﷺ) and he said (to her), "You can marry now."
Hadith - 68
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Abdullah: That his father had written to Ibn Al-Arqam a letter asking him to ask Subai'a Al-Aslamiya how the Prophet had given her the verdict.
She said, "The Prophet gave me his verdict that after I gave birth, I could marry."
Hadith - 69
Narrated Al-Miswer bin Makhrama: Subai'a Al-Aslamiya gave birth to a child a few days after the death of her husband. She came to the Prophet and asked permission to remarry, and the Prophet (ﷺ) gave her permission, and she got married.
Hadith - 70
Narrated Qasim bin Muhammad and Sulaiman bin Yasar: That Yahya bin Sa`id bin Al-`As divorced the daughter of `Abdur-Rahman bin Al-Hakam. `Abdur-Rahman took her to his house.
On that, `Aisha sent a message to Marwan bin Al-Hakam who was the ruler of Medina, saying, "Fear Allah, and urge your brother to return her to her house."
Marwan (in Sulaiman's version) said, "Abdur-Rahman bin Al-Hakam did not obey me (or had a convincing argument)."
(In Al-Qasim's versions Marwan said, "Have you not heard of the case of Fatima bint Qais?"
Aisha said, "The case of Fatima bint Qais is not in your favor." Marwan bin Al-Hakam said to `Aisha, "The reason that made Fatima bint Qais go to her father's house is just as applicable to the daughter of `Abdur-Rahman").
Hadith - 71
Narrated Al-Qasim: Aisha said, "What is wrong with Fatima? Why doesn't she fear Allah?" by saying that a divorced lady is not entitled to be provided with residence and sustenance (by her husband).
Hadith - 72
Narrated Qasim: Urwa said to Aisha, "Do you know so-and-so, the daughter of Al-Hakam? Her husband divorced her irrevocably and she left (her husband's house)." `Aisha said, "What a bad thing she has done!"
'Urwa said (to `Aisha), "Haven't you heard the statement of Fatima?" `Aisha replied, "It is not in her favor to mention."
'Urwa added, `Aisha reproached (Fatima) severely and said, "Fatima was in a lonely place, and she was prone to danger, so the Prophet (ﷺ) allowed her (to go out of her husband's house)."
Hadith - 73
Narrated 'Urwa: Aisha disapproved of what Fatima used to say.
Hadith - 74
Narrated `Aisha: When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) decided to leave Mecca after the Hajj, he saw Safiyya, sad and standing at the entrance of her tent.
He said to her, "Aqra (or) Halqa! You will detain us. Did you perform Tawaf-al-Ifada on the day of Nahr?" She said, "Yes." He said, "Then you can depart."
Hadith - 75
Narrated Al-Hasan: Ma'qil gave his sister in marriage and later her husband divorced her once.
Hadith - 76
Narrated Al-Hasan: The sister of Ma'qil bin Yasar was married to a man and then that man divorced her and remained away from her till her period of the 'Iddah expired.
Then he demanded for her hand in marriage, but Ma'qil got angry out of pride and haughtiness and said, "He kept away from her when he could still retain her, and now he demands her hand again?" So Ma'qil disagreed to remarry her to him.
Then Allah revealed: 'When you have divorced women and they have fulfilled the term of their prescribed period, do not prevent them from marrying their (former) husbands.' (Surah 2: Ayah 232)
So the Prophet (ﷺ) sent for Ma'qil and recited to him (Allah's order) and consequently Ma'qil gave up his pride and haughtiness and yielded to Allah's order.
Hadith - 77
Narrated Nafi`: Ibn `Umar bin Al-Khattab divorced his wife during her menses.
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) ordered him to take her back till she became clean, and when she got another period while she was with him, she should wait till she became clean again and only then, if he wanted to divorce her, he could do so before having sexual relations with her. And that is the period Allah has fixed for divorcing women.
Whenever `Abdullah (bin `Umar) was asked about that, he would say to the questioner, "If you divorced her thrice, she is no longer lawful for you unless she marries another man (and the other man divorces her in his turn)."
Ibn `Umar further said, 'Would that you (people) only give one or two divorces, because the Prophet (ﷺ) has ordered me so.'
Hadith - 78
Narrated Yunus Ibn Jubair: Ibn `Umar divorced his wife while she was having her menses. `Umar asked the Prophet (ﷺ) who said, "Order him (your son) to take her back, and then divorce her before her period of the 'Iddah has elapsed."
I asked Ibn `Umar, "Will that divorce (during the menses) be counted?" He replied, "If somebody behaves foolishly (will his foolishness be an excuse for his misbehavior)?"
Hadith - 79
Narrated Humaid bin Nafi`: Zainab bint Abu Salama told me these three narrations: Zainab said: I went to Um Habiba, the wife of the Prophet (ﷺ) when her father, Abu Sufyan bin Harb had died.
Um Habiba asked for a perfume which contained yellow scent (Khaluq) or some other scent, and she first perfumed one of the girls with it and then rubbed her cheeks with it and said, "By Allah, I am not in need of perfume, but I have heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, 'It is not lawful for a lady who believes in Allah and the Last Day to mourn for a dead person for more than three days, unless he is her husband for whom she should mourn for four months and ten days.'"
Hadith - 80
Zainab further said: I went to Zainab bint Jahsh when her brother died.
She asked for perfume and used some of it and said, "By Allah, I am not in need of perfume, but I have heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying on the pulpit, 'It is not lawful for a lady who believes in Allah and the last Day to mourn for more than three days, except for her husband for whom she should mourn for four months and ten days.'"
Hadith - 81
Zainab further said: "I heard my mother, Um Salama saying that a woman came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! The husband of my daughter has died and she is suffering from an eye disease, can she apply kohl to her eye?"
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) replied, "No," twice or thrice. (Every time she repeated her question), he said, "No."
Then Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) added, "It is just a matter of four months and ten days. In the Pre-Islamic Period of ignorance a widow among you would throw a globe of dung when one year had elapsed."
Hadith - 82
I (Humaid) said to Zainab, "What does 'throwing a globe of dung when one year had elapsed' mean?"
Zainab said, "When a lady was bereaved of her husband, she would live in a wretched small room and put on the worst clothes she had, and would not touch any scent till one year had elapsed.
Then she would bring an animal, e.g. a donkey, a sheep or a bird and rub her body against it. The animal against which she would rub her body would scarcely survive.
Only then she would come out of her room, whereupon she would be given a globe of dung which she would throw away and then she would use the scent she liked or the like."
Hadith - 83
Narrated Um Salama: A woman was bereaved of her husband and her relatives worried about her eyes (which were diseased).
They came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), and asked him to allow them to treat her eyes with kohl, but he said, "She should not apply kohl to her eyes.
(In the Pre-Islamic period of Ignorance) a widowed woman among you would stay in the worst of her clothes (or the worst part of her house) and when a year had elapsed, if a dog passed by her, she would throw a globe of dung.
Nay, (she cannot use kohl) till four months and ten days have elapsed."
Hadith - 84
Narrated Um Habiba: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "It is not lawful for a Muslim woman who believes in Allah and the Last Day to mourn for more than three days, except for her husband, for whom she should mourn for four months and ten days."
Hadith - 85
Narrated Um 'Atiyya: We were forbidden to mourn for more than three days except for a husband.
Hadith - 86
Narrated Um 'Atiyya: We were forbidden to mourn for more than three days for a dead person, except for a husband, for whom a wife should mourn for four months and ten days. (While in the mourning period) we were not allowed to put kohl in our eyes, nor perfume our-selves, nor wear dyed clothes, except a garment of 'Asb (special clothes made in Yemen).
But it was permissible for us that when one of us became clean from her menses and took a bath, she could use a piece of a certain kind of incense. And it was forbidden for us to follow funeral processions.
Hadith - 87
Narrated Um 'Atiyya: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "It is not lawful for a lady who believes in Allah and the Last Day, to mourn for more than three days for a dead person, except for her husband, in which case she should neither put kohl in her eyes, nor perfume herself, nor wear dyed clothes, except a garment of 'Asb."
Hadith - 88
Um 'Atiyya added: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "She should not use perfume except when she becomes clean from her menses, whereupon she can use Qust and Azfar (two kinds of incense)."
Hadith - 89
Narrated Mujahid: (Regarding the Verse): 'If any of you dies and leaves wives behind,' That was the period of the 'Iddah which the widow was obliged to spend in the house of the late husband.
Then Allah revealed: 'And those of you who die and leave wives should bequeath for their wives a year's maintenance and residence without turning them out, but if they leave, there is no blame on you for what they do of themselves, provided it is honorable (i.e. lawful marriage)' (Surah 2: Ayah 240)
Mujahid said: Allah has ordered that a widow has the right to stay for seven months and twenty days with her husband's relatives through her husband's will and testament, so that she will complete the period of one year (of 'Iddah).
But the widow has the right to stay that extra period or go out of her husband's house as is indicated by the statement of Allah: 'But if they leave there is no blame on you,... ' (Surah 2: Ayah 240)
Ibn `Abbas said: The above Verse has cancelled the order of spending the period of the 'Iddah at her late husband's house, and so she could spend her period of the 'Iddah wherever she likes.
And Allah says: 'Without turning them out.' 'Ata said: If she would, she could spend her period of the 'Iddah at her husband's house, and live there according to her (husband's) will and testament, and if she would, she could go out (of her husband's house) as Allah says: 'There is no blame on you for what they do of themselves.' (Surah 2: Ayah 240)
'Ata added: Then the Verses of inheritance were revealed and the order of residence (for the widow) was cancelled, and she could spend her period of the 'Iddah wherever she would like, and she was no longer entitled to be accommodated by her husband's family.
Hadith - 90
Narrated Zainab bint Um Salama: When Um Habiba bint Abi Sufyan was informed of her father's death, she asked for perfume and rubbed it over her arms and said, "I am not in need of perfume, but I have heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "It is not lawful for a lady who believes in Allah and the Last Day to mourn for more than three days, except for her husband, for whom the (mourning) period is four months and ten days."
Hadith - 91
Narrated Abu Mas`ud: The Prophet (ﷺ) prohibited taking the price of a dog, the earnings of a soothsayer and the money earned by prostitution.
Hadith - 92
Narrated Abu Juhaifa: The Prophet (ﷺ) cursed the lady who practices tattooing and the one who gets herself tattooed, and one who eats (takes) Riba' (usury) and the one who gives it.
And he prohibited taking the price of a dog, and the money earned by prostitution, and cursed the makers of pictures.
Hadith - 93
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) forbade taking the earnings of a slave girl by prostitution.
Hadith - 94
Narrated Sa`id bin Jubair: I said to Ibn `Umar, "If a man accuses his wife of illegal sexual intercourse (what is the judgment)?" He said, "Allah's Prophet separated the couple of Bani 'Ajlan (when the husband accused his wife for an illegal sexual intercourse).
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Allah knows that one of you two is a liar; so will one of you repent?" But they refused.
He then again said, "Allah knows that one of you two is a liar; so will one of you repent?" But they refused, whereupon he separated them by divorce."
Aiyub (a subnarrator) said: `Amr bin Dinar said to me, "In the narration there is something which I do not see you mentioning, i.e. the husband said, "What about my money (Mahr)?'
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "You are not entitled to take back money, for if you told the truth you have already entered upon her (and consummated your marriage with her) and if you are a liar then you are less entitled to take it back."
Hadith - 95
Narrated Ibn `Umar: The Prophet (ﷺ) said to those who were involved in a case of Lian, "Your accounts are with Allah. One of you two is a liar. You (husband) have no right on her (wife)."
The husband said, "My money, O Allah's Apostle!" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "You are not entitled to take back any money. If you have told the truth, the Mahr that you paid, was for having sexual relations with her lawfully; and if you are a liar, then you are less entitled to get it back."