Hadith - 58
Narrated Qasim bin Muhammad: Three traditions have been established because of Barira: `Aisha intended to buy her and set her free, but Barira's masters said, "Her wala' will be for us."
`Aisha mentioned that to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) who said, "You could accept their condition if you wished, for the wala is for the one who manumits the slave."
Barira was manumitted, then she was given the choice either to stay with her husband or leave him.
One day Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) entered `Aisha's house while there was a cooking pot of food boiling on the fire. The Prophet (ﷺ) asked for lunch, and he was presented with bread and some extra food from the home-made Udm (e.g. soup).
He asked, "Don't I see meat (being cooked)?" They said, "Yes, O Allah's Apostle! But it is the meat that has been given to Barira in charity and she has given it to us as a present." He said, "For Barira it is alms, but for us it is a present."
Hadith - 59
Narrated `Aisha: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to love sweet edible things and honey.
Hadith - 60
Narrated Abu Huraira: I used to accompany Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) to fill my stomach; and that was when I did not eat baked bread, nor wear silk.
Neither a male nor a female slave used to serve me, and I used to bind stones over my belly and ask somebody to recite a Qur'anic Verse for me though I knew it, so that he might take me to his house and feed me.
Ja`far bin Abi Talib was very kind to the poor, and he used to take us and feed us with whatever was available in his house, (and if nothing was available), he used to give us the empty (honey or butter) skin which we would tear and lick whatever was in it.
Hadith - 61
Narrated Anas: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) went to (the house of) his slave tailor, and he was offered (a dish of) gourd of which he started eating. I have loved to eat gourd since I saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) eating it.
Hadith - 62
Narrated Abu Mas`ud Al-Ansari: There was a man called Abu Shu'aib, and he had a slave who was a butcher. He said (to his slave), "Prepare a meal to which I may invite Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) along with four other men."
So he invited Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and four other men, but another man followed them, whereupon the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "You have invited me as one of five guests, but now another man has followed us. If you wish you can admit him, and if you wish you can refuse him." On that, the host said, "But I admit him."
Narrated Muhammad bin Isma`il: If guests are sitting at a dining table, they do not have the right to carry food from other tables to theirs, but they can pass on food from their own table to each other; otherwise they should leave it.
Hadith - 63
Narrated Anas: I was a young boy when I once was walking with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) entered the house of his slave tailor and the latter brought a dish filled with food covered with pieces of gourd.
Allah's Apostle started picking and eating the gourd. When I saw that, I started collecting and placing the gourd before him. Then the slave returned to his work.
Anas added: I have kept on loving gourd since I saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) doing what he was doing.
Hadith - 64
Narrated Anas bin Malik: A tailor invited the Prophet (ﷺ) to a meal which he had prepared, and I went along with the Prophet (ﷺ). The tailor presented barley bread and soup containing gourd and cured meat.
I saw the Prophet (ﷺ) picking the pieces of gourd from around the dish, and since then I have kept on liking gourd.
Hadith - 65
Narrated Anas: I saw the Prophet (ﷺ) being served with soup and containing gourd and cured meat, and I saw him picking and eating the pieces of gourd.
Hadith - 66
Narrated `Aisha: The Prophet (ﷺ) did not do that (i.e., forbade the storage of the meat of sacrifices for three days) except (he did so) so that the rich would feed the poor. But later we used to keep even trotters to cook, fifteen days later.
The family of Muhammad did not eat wheat bread with meat or soup to their satisfaction for three successive days.
Hadith - 67
Narrated Anas bin Malik: A tailor invited Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) to a meal which he had prepared. I went with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) to that meal, and the tailor served the Prophet (ﷺ) with barley bread and soup of gourd and cured meat.
I saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) picking the pieces of gourd from around the dish, and since then I have kept on liking gourd.
Hadith - 68
Narrated `Abdullah bin Ja`far bin Abi Talib: I saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) eating fresh dates with snake cucumber.
Hadith - 69
Narrated Abu `Uthman: I was a guest of Abu Huraira for seven days. Abu Huraira, his wife and his slave used to get up and remain awake for one-third of the night by turns. Each would offer the night prayer and then awaken the other.
I heard Abu Huraira saying, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) distributed dates among his companions and my share was seven dates, one of which was a Hashafa (a date which dried on the tree before it was fully ripe)."
Hadith - 70
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) distributed dates among us, and my share was five dates, four of which were good, and one was a Hashafa, and I found the Hashafa the hardest for my teeth.
Hadith - 71
Aishah said, "When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) died, we had been satisfied by the two black things, i.e., dates and water."
Hadith - 72
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah: There was a Jew in Medina who used to lend me money up to the season of plucking dates. (Jabir had a piece of land which was on the way to Ruma). That year the land was not promising, so the payment of the debt was delayed one year.
The Jew came to me at the time of plucking, but gathered nothing from my land. I asked him to give me one year respite, but he refused. This news reached the Prophet (ﷺ) whereupon he said to his companions, "Let us go and ask the Jew for respite for Jabir."
All of them came to me in my garden, and the Prophet (ﷺ) started speaking to the Jew, but the Jew said, "O Abul Qasim! I will not grant him respite."
When the Prophet (ﷺ) saw the Jew's attitude, he stood up and walked all around the garden and came again and talked to the Jew, but the Jew refused his request. I got up and brought some ripe fresh dates and put it in front of the Prophet.
He ate and then said to me, "Where is your hut, O Jabir?" I informed him, and he said, "Spread out a bed for me in it." I spread out a bed, and he entered and slept.
When he woke up, I brought some dates to him again and he ate of it and then got up and talked to the Jew again, but the Jew again refused his request.
Then the Prophet (ﷺ) got up for the second time amidst the palm trees loaded with fresh dates, and said, "O Jabir! Pluck dates to repay your debt." The Jew remained with me while I was plucking the dates, till I paid him all his right, yet there remained extra quantity of dates.
So I went out and proceeded till I reached the Prophet and informed him of the good news, whereupon he said, "I testify that I am Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)."
Hadith - 73
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar: While we were sitting with the Prophet (ﷺ), fresh dates were brought to him. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "There is a tree among the trees which is as blessed as a Muslim."
I thought that it was the date palm tree and intended to say, "It is the date-palm tree, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)!" but I looked behind to see that I was the tenth and youngest of ten men present there, so I kept quiet. Then the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "It is the date-palm tree."
Hadith - 74
Narrated Sa`d: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "He who eats seven 'Ajwa dates every morning will not be affected by poison or magic on the day he eats them."
Hadith - 75
Narrated Jabala bin Suhaim: At the time of Ibn Az-Zubair, we were struck with famine, and he provided us with dates for our food.
`Abdullah bin `Umar used to pass by us while we were eating, and say, "Do not eat two dates together at a time, for the Prophet (ﷺ) forbade the taking of two dates together at a time (in a gathering)." Ibn `Umar used to add, "Unless one takes the permission of one's companions."
Hadith - 76
Narrated `Abdullah bin Ja`far: I saw the Prophet (ﷺ) eating fresh dates with snake cucumbers.
Hadith - 77
Narrated Ibn `Umar: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "There is a tree among the trees which is similar to a Muslim (in goodness), and that is the date palm tree."
Hadith - 78
Narrated `Abdullah bin Ja`far: I saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) eating fresh dates with snake cucumbers.
Hadith - 79
Narrated Anas: My mother, Um Sulaim, took a Mudd of barley grain, ground it and made porridge from it, and pressed (over it) a butter skin she had with her. Then she sent me to the Prophet (ﷺ), and I reached him while he was sitting with his companions.
I invited him, whereupon he said, "And those who are with me?" I returned and said, "He says, 'And those who are with me?'" Abu Talha went out to him and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! It is just a meal prepared by Um Sulaim."
The Prophet (ﷺ) entered and the food was brought to him. He said, "Let ten persons enter upon me." Those ten entered and ate their fill.
Again he said, "Let ten (more) enter upon me." Those ten entered and ate their fill. Then he said, "Let ten (more) enter upon me." He called forty persons in all.
Then Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) ate and got up. I started looking (at the food) to see if it decreased or not.
Hadith - 80
Narrated `Abdul `Aziz: It was said to Anas, "What did you hear the Prophet (ﷺ) saying about garlic?" Anas replied, "Whoever has eaten (garlic) should not approach our mosque."
Hadith - 81
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Whoever has eaten garlic or onion should keep away from us (or should keep away from our mosque)."
Hadith - 82
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah: We were with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) collecting Al-Kabath at Mar-Az-Zahran. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Collect the black ones, for they are better."
Somebody said, "(O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)!) Have you ever shepherded sheep?" He said, "There has been no prophet but has shepherded them."
Hadith - 83
Narrated Suwaid bin An-Nu`man: We went out with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) to Khaibar, and when we reached As-Sahba', the Prophet (ﷺ) asked for food, and he was offered nothing but Sawiq.
We ate, and then Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) stood up for the prayer. He rinsed his mouth with water, and we too, rinsed our mouths.
Hadith - 84
Narrated Suwaid: We went out with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) to Khaibar, and when we reached As-Sahba', which (Yahya says) is one day's journey from Khaibar, the Prophet (ﷺ) asked for food, and he was offered nothing but Sawiq which we chewed and ate.
Then the Prophet (ﷺ) asked for water and rinsed his mouth, and we too, rinsed our mouths along with him. He then led us in the Maghrib prayer without performing ablution again.
Hadith - 85
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "When you eat, do not wipe your hands till you have licked it, or had it licked by somebody else."
Hadith - 86
Narrated Sa`id bin Al-Harith: That he asked Jabir bin `Abdullah about performing ablution after taking a cooked meal.
He replied, "It is not essential," and added, "We never used to get such kind of food during the lifetime of the Prophet except rarely; and if at all we got such a dish, we did not have any handkerchiefs to wipe our hands with except the palms of our hands, our forearms and our feet.
We would perform the prayer thereafter without performing new ablution."
Hadith - 87
Narrated Abu Umama: Whenever the dining sheet of the Prophet (ﷺ) was taken away (i.e., whenever he finished his meal), he used to say: "All praise is due to Allah, praise which is abundant, pure, and full of blessings, which is indispensable and to which one cannot be indifferent."
Hadith - 88
Narrated Abu Umama: Whenever the Prophet (ﷺ) finished his meals (or when his dining sheet was taken away), he used to say, "Praise be to Allah Who has satisfied our needs and quenched our thirst. Your favor cannot be compensated or denied."
Once he said, "All praise be to You, O our Lord! Your favor cannot be compensated, nor can be left, nor can be dispensed with, O our Lord."
Hadith - 89
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "When your servant brings your food to you, if you do not ask him to join you, then at least ask him to take one or two handfuls, for he has suffered from its heat (while cooking it) and has taken pains to cook it nicely."
Hadith - 90
Narrated Abu Mas`ud Al-Ansari: There was an Ansari man nicknamed Abu Shu'aib, who had a slave who was a butcher. He came to the Prophet (ﷺ) while he was sitting with his companions and noticed the signs of hunger on the face of the Prophet (ﷺ).
So he went to his butcher slave and said, "Prepare for me a meal sufficient for five persons so that I may invite the Prophet (ﷺ) along with four other men." He had the meal prepared for him and invited him. A (sixth) man followed them.
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O Abu Shu'aib! Another man has followed us. If you wish, you may invite him; and if you wish, you may refuse him." Abu Shu'aib said, "No, I will admit him."
Hadith - 91
Narrated `Amr bin Umaiyya: That he saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) cutting a piece of mutton from its shoulder part he was carrying in his hand.
When he was called for prayer, he put it down and the knife with which he was cutting it. Then he stood up and offered the prayer without performing new ablution.
Hadith - 92
Narrated Anas bin Malik: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If supper is served and the Iqama for (Isha) prayer is proclaimed, start with your supper first."
Hadith - 93
Narrated Nafi: Once Ibn Umar was taking his supper while he was listening to the recitation of (Quran by) the Imam (in the Isha prayer).
Hadith - 94
Narrated Aisha: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If the Iqama for (`Isha') prayer is proclaimed and supper is served, take your supper first."
Hadith - 95
Narrated Anas: I know (about) the Hijab (the order of veiling of women) more than anybody else. Ubai bin Ka`b used to ask me about it.
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) became the bridegroom of Zainab bint Jahsh whom he married at Medina. After the sun had risen high in the sky, the Prophet (ﷺ) invited the people to a meal.
Allah's Apostle remained sitting and some people remained sitting with him after the other guests had left. Then Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) got up and went away, and I too, followed him till he reached the door of `Aisha's room.
Then he thought that the people must have left the place by then, so he returned and I also returned with him. Behold, the people were still sitting at their places.
So he went back again for the second time, and I went along with him too. When we reached the door of `Aisha's room, he returned and I also returned with him to see that the people had left.
Thereupon the Prophet (ﷺ) hung a curtain between me and him and the Verse regarding the order for (veiling of women) Hijab was revealed.