Hadith - 1
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "There is no disease that Allah has created, except that He also has created its treatment."
Hadith - 2
Narrated Rubayi bint Mu`awwidh bin Afra: We used to go for Military expeditions along with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and provide the people with water, serve them, and bring the dead and the wounded back to Medina."
Hadith - 3
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: (The Prophet (ﷺ) said), "Healing is in three things: A gulp of honey, cupping, and branding with fire (cauterizing). But I forbid my followers to use (cauterization) branding with fire."
Hadith - 4
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Healing is in three things: cupping, a gulp of honey or cauterization, (branding with fire) but I forbid my followers to use cauterization (branding with fire)."
Hadith - 5
Narrated `Aisha: The Prophet (ﷺ) used to like sweet edible things and honey.
Hadith - 6
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah: I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "If there is any healing in your medicines, then it is in cupping, a gulp of honey or branding with fire (cauterization) that suits the ailment, but I don't like to be (cauterized) branded with fire."
Hadith - 7
Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri: A man came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said, "My brother has some abdominal trouble." The Prophet (ﷺ) said to him, "Let him drink honey."
The man came for the second time and the Prophet (ﷺ) said to him, "Let him drink honey." He came for the third time and the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Let him drink honey." He returned again and said, "I have done that."
The Prophet (ﷺ) then said, "Allah has said the truth, but your brother's abdomen has told a lie. Let him drink honey." So he made him drink honey and he was cured.
Hadith - 8
Narrated Anas: Some people were sick and they said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Give us shelter and food." So when they became healthy they said, "The weather of Medina is not suitable for us."
So he sent them to Al-Harra with some she-camels of his and said, "Drink of their milk." But when they became healthy, they killed the shepherd of the Prophet (ﷺ) and drove away his camels.
The Prophet (ﷺ) sent some people in their pursuit. Then he got their hands and feet cut and their eyes were branded with heated pieces of iron. I saw one of them licking the earth with his tongue till he died.
Hadith - 9
Narrated Anas: The climate of Medina did not suit some people, so the Prophet (ﷺ) ordered them to follow his shepherd, i.e. his camels, and drink their milk and urine (as a medicine).
So they followed the shepherd, that is the camels, and drank their milk and urine till their bodies became healthy. Then they killed the shepherd and drove away the camels.
When the news reached the Prophet (ﷺ) he sent some people in their pursuit. When they were brought, he cut their hands and feet and their eyes were branded with heated pieces of iron.
Hadith - 10
Narrated Khalid bin Sa`d: We went out and Ghalib bin Abjar was accompanying us. He fell ill on the way, and when we arrived at Medina he was still sick. Ibn Abi 'Atiq came to visit him and said to us, "Treat him with black cumin.
Take five or seven seeds and crush them (mix the powder with oil) and drop the resulting mixture into both nostrils, for `Aisha has narrated to me that she heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, 'This black cumin is healing for all diseases except As-Sam.'
Aisha said, 'What is As-Sam?' He said, 'Death.'"
Hadith - 11
Narrated Abu Huraira: I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "There is healing in black cumin for all diseases except death."
Hadith - 12
Narrated 'Urwa: Aisha used to recommend at-Talbina for the sick and for such a person as grieved over a dead person.
She used to say, 'I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "At-Talbina gives rest to the heart of the patient and makes it active and relieves some of his sorrow and grief."'
Hadith - 13
Narrated Hisham's father: `Aisha used to recommend at-Talbina and used to say, "It is disliked (by the patient) although it is beneficial."
Hadith - 14
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: The Prophet (ﷺ) was cupped and he paid the wages to the one who had cupped him and then took Su'ut (medicine sniffed by nose).
Hadith - 15
Narrated Um Qais bint Mihsan: I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "Treat with the Indian incense, for it has healing for seven diseases; it is to be sniffed by one having throat trouble, and to be put into one side of the mouth of one suffering from pleurisy."
Once I went to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) with a son of mine who would not eat any food, and the boy passed urine on him, whereupon he asked for some water and sprinkled it over the place of urine.
Hadith - 16
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: The Prophet (ﷺ) was cupped while he was fasting.
Hadith - 17
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: The Prophet (ﷺ) was cupped while he was in a state of Ihram.
Hadith - 18
Narrated Anas: That he was asked about the wages of the one who cups others. He said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was cupped by Abu Taiba, to whom he gave two Sa of food and interceded for him with his masters who consequently reduced what they used to charge him daily.
Then the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The best medicines you may treat yourselves with are cupping and sea incense." He added, "You should not torture your children by treating tonsillitis by pressing the tonsils or the palate with the finger, but use incense."
Hadith - 19
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah: That he paid Al-Muqanna a visit during his illness and said, 'I will not leave till he gets cupped, for I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "There is healing in cupping."'
Hadith - 20
Narrated `Abdullah bin Buhaina: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was cupped on the middle of his head at Lahi Jamal on his way to Mecca while he was in a state of Ihram.
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was cupped on his head.
Hadith - 21
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: The Prophet (ﷺ) was cupped on his head for an ailment he was suffering from while he was in a state of Ihram, at a water-place called Lahi Jamal.
Ibn `Abbas further said: Allah's Apostle was cupped on his head for unilateral headache while he was in a state of Ihram.
Hadith - 22
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah: I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "If there is any good in your medicines, then it is in a gulp of honey, a cupping operation, or branding (cauterization), but I do not like to be (cauterized) branded."
Hadith - 23
Narrated Ka`b bin Ujrah: The Prophet (ﷺ) came to me during the period of Al-Hudaibiya, while I was lighting fire underneath a cooking pot and lice were falling down my head. He said, "Do your lice hurt you?" I said, "Yes."
He said, "Shave your head and fast for three days or feed six poor persons or slaughter a sheep as a sacrifice."
Hadith - 24
Narrated Jabir: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If there is any healing in your medicines then it is in a cupping operation, or branding (cauterization), but I do not like to be (cauterized) branded."
Hadith - 25
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, 'Nations were displayed before me; one or two prophets would pass by along with a few followers. A prophet would pass by accompanied by nobody.
Then a big crowd of people passed in front of me and I asked, "Who are they? Are they my followers?" It was said, "No. It is Moses and his followers."
It was said to me, 'Look at the horizon.' Behold! There was a multitude of people filling the horizon. Then it was said to me, 'Look there and there about the stretching sky! Behold! There was a multitude filling the horizon.'
It was said to me, 'This is your nation out of whom seventy thousand shall enter Paradise without reckoning.'"
Then the Prophet (ﷺ) entered his house without telling his companions who they (the 70,000) were.
So the people started talking about the issue and said, "It is we who have believed in Allah and followed His Apostle; therefore those people are either ourselves or our children who are born in the Islamic era, for we were born in the Pre-Islamic Period of Ignorance."
When the Prophet (ﷺ) heard of that, he came out and said, "Those people are those who do not treat themselves with Ruqya, nor do they believe in bad or good omen (from birds etc) nor do they get themselves branded (cauterized), but they put their trust (only) in their Lord."
On that, 'Ukasha bin Muhsin said, "Am I one of them, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Yes." Then another person got up and said, "Am I one of them?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "'Ukasha has anticipated you."
Hadith - 26
Narrated Um Salama: The husband of a lady died and her eyes became sore and the people mentioned her story to the Prophet (ﷺ). They asked him whether it was permissible for her to use kohl as her eyes were exposed to danger.
He said, "Previously, when one of you was bereaved by a husband she would stay in her dirty clothes in a bad unhealthy house (for one year), and when a dog passed by, she would throw a globe of dung. No, (she should observe the prescribed period of Idda) for four months and ten days."
Hadith - 27
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "(There is) no 'Adwa (no contagious disease is conveyed without Allah's permission), nor is there any bad omen (from birds), nor is there any Hamah, nor is there any bad omen in the month of Safar, and one should run away from the leper as one runs away from a lion."
Note: The majority of scholars interpret this to mean that these things in and of themselves do not transmit or cause harm through supernatural or hidden means, but that Allah is ultimately in control and any fearful superstition around these is false.
Hadith - 28
Narrated Sa`id bin Zaid: I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "Truffles are like Manna (i.e. they grow naturally without man's care) and their water heals eye diseases."
Hadith - 29
Narrated Ibn `Abbas and `Aisha: Abu Bakr kissed (the forehead of) the Prophet (ﷺ) when he was dead.
`Aisha added: We put medicine in one side of his mouth but he started waving us not to insert the medicine into his mouth. We said, "He dislikes the medicine as a patient usually does."
But when he came to his senses he said, "Did I not forbid you to put medicine (by force) in the side of my mouth?" We said, "We thought it was just because a patient usually dislikes medicine."
He said, "None of those who are in the house but will be forced to take medicine in the side of his mouth while I am watching, except Al-`Abbas, for he had not witnessed your deed."
Hadith - 30
Narrated Um Qais: I went to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) along with a son of mine whose palate and tonsils I had pressed with my finger as a treatment for a (throat and tonsil) disease.
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Why do you pain your children by pressing their throats! Use Oud Al-Hindi (certain Indian incense) for it cures seven diseases, one of which is pleurisy.
It is used as a snuff for treating throat and tonsil disease and it is inserted into one side of the mouth of one suffering from pleurisy."
Hadith - 31
Narrated `Aisha (the wife of the Prophet): When the health of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) deteriorated and his condition became serious, he asked the permission of all his wives to allow him to be treated in my house, and they allowed him.
He came out, supported by two men and his legs were dragging on the ground between `Abbas and another man.
(The sub-narrator told Ibn `Abbas, who said: "Do you know who was the other man whom `Aisha did not mention?" The sub-narrator said: "No." Ibn `Abbas said: "It was `Ali.")
`Aisha added: When the Prophet entered my house and his disease became aggravated, he said, "Pour on me seven water-skins full of water (the tying ribbons of which had not been untied), so that I may give some advice to the people."
So we made him sit in a tub belonging to Hafsa, the wife of the Prophet (ﷺ), and started pouring water on him from those water skins till he waved us to stop.
Then he went out to the people and led them in prayer and delivered a speech before them.
Hadith - 32
Narrated Um Qais: That she took to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) one of her sons whose palate and tonsils she had pressed because he had throat trouble.
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Why do you pain your children by getting the palate pressed like that? Use the Oud Al-Hindi (certain Indian incense) for it cures seven diseases, one of which is pleurisy."
Hadith - 33
Narrated Abu Sa`id: A man came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said, 'My brother has got loose motions.' The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Let him drink honey."
The man again (came) and said, 'I made him drink (honey) but that made him worse.' The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Allah has said the Truth, and the abdomen of your brother has told a lie."
Hadith - 34
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "There is no 'Adwa (no disease is conveyed from the sick to the healthy without Allah's permission), nor Safar, nor Hama."
A bedouin stood up and said, "Then what about my camels? They are like deer on the sand, but when a mangy camel comes and mixes with them, they all get infected with mangy." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Then who conveyed the (mange) disease to the first one?"
Hadith - 35
Narrated Um Qais: That she took to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) one of her sons whose palate and tonsils she had pressed to treat a throat trouble.
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Be afraid of Allah! Why do you pain your children by having their tonsils pressed like that? Use the Oud Al-Hindi (a certain Indian incense) for it cures seven diseases, one of which is pleurisy."
Hadith - 36
Narrated Anas bin Malik: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) allowed one of the Ansar families to treat persons who have taken poison and also who are suffering from ear ailment with Ruqya.
Anas added: I got myself branded (cauterized) for pleurisy, when Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was still alive. Abu Talha, Anas bin An-Nadr and Zaid bin Thabit witnessed that, and it was Abu Talha who branded (cauterized) me.
Hadith - 37
Narrated Sahl bin Sa'd As-Sa`idi: When the helmet broke on the head of the Prophet (ﷺ) and his face became covered with blood and his incisor tooth broke (i.e. during the battle of Uhud), `Ali used to bring water in his shield while Fatima was washing the blood off his face.
When Fatima saw that the bleeding increased because of the water, she took a mat (of palm leaves), burnt it, and stuck it (the burnt ashes) on the wound of Allah's Apostle, whereupon the bleeding stopped.
Hadith - 38
Narrated Nafi': `Abdullah bin `Umar said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'Fever is from the heat of Hell, so put it out (cool it) with water.'"
Nafi` added: `Abdullah used to say, "O Allah! Relieve us from the punishment," (when he suffered from fever).
Hadith - 39
Narrated Fatima bint Al-Mundhir: Whenever a lady suffering from fever was brought to Asma' bint Abu Bakr, she used to invoke Allah for her and then sprinkle some water on her body at the chest and say, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to order us to abate fever with water."
Hadith - 40
Narrated `Aisha: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Fever is from the heat of Hell, so abate fever with water."
Hadith - 41
Narrated Rafi` bin Khadij: I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "Fever is from the heat of Hell, so abate fever with water."
Hadith - 42
Narrated Anas bin Malik: Some people from the tribes of `Ukl and `Uraina came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and embraced Islam and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! We are owners of livestock and have never been farmers," and they found the climate of Medina unsuitable for them.
So Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) ordered that they be given some camels and a shepherd, and ordered them to go out with those camels and drink their milk and urine.
So they set out, but when they reached a place called Al-Harra, they reverted to disbelief after their conversion to Islam, killed the shepherd and drove away the camels. When this news reached the Prophet (ﷺ) he sent in their pursuit (and they were caught and brought).
The Prophet (ﷺ) ordered that their eyes be branded with heated iron bars and their hands be cut off, and they were left at Al-Harra till they died in that state.
Hadith - 43
Narrated Sa'd: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If you hear of an outbreak of plague in a land, do not enter it; but if the plague breaks out in a place while you are in it, do not leave that place."
Hadith - 44
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Abbas: `Umar bin Al-Khattab departed for Sham and when he reached Sargh, the commanders of the (Muslim) army Abu 'Ubaida bin Al-Jarrah and his companions met him and told him that an epidemic had broken out in Sham.
`Umar said, "Call for me the early emigrants." So `Umar called them, consulted them and informed them that an epidemic had broken out in Sham. Those people differed in their opinions.
Some of them said, "We have come out for a purpose and we do not think that it is proper to give it up," while others said (to `Umar), "You have along with you other people and the companions of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) so we do not advise that we take them to this epidemic."
`Umar said to them, "Leave me now." Then he said, "Call the Ansar for me." I called them and he consulted them and they followed the way of the emigrants and differed as they did.
He then said to them, "Leave me now," and added, "Call for me the old people of Quraish who emigrated in the year of the Conquest of Mecca."
I called them and they gave a unanimous opinion saying, "We advise that you should return with the people and do not take them to that (place) of epidemic." So `Umar made an announcement, "I will ride back to Medina in the morning, so you should do the same."
Abu 'Ubaida bin Al-Jarrah said (to `Umar), "Are you running away from what Allah had ordained?" `Umar said, "Would that someone else had said such a thing, O Abu 'Ubaida! Yes, we are running from what Allah had ordained to what Allah has ordained.
Don't you agree that if you had camels that went down a valley having two places, one green and the other dry, you would graze them on the green one only if Allah had ordained that, and you would graze them on the dry one only if Allah had ordained that?"
At that time `Abdur-Rahman bin `Auf, who had been absent because of some job, came and said, "I have some knowledge about this.
I have heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, 'If you hear about it (an outbreak of plague) in a land, do not go to it; but if plague breaks out in a country where you are staying, do not run away from it.'" `Umar thanked Allah and returned to Medina.
Hadith - 45
Narrated `Abdullah bin 'Amir: `Umar went to Sham and when he reached Sargh, he got the news that an epidemic (of plague) had broken out in Sham.
`Abdur-Rahman bin `Auf told him that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If you hear that it (plague) has broken out in a land, do not go to it; but if it breaks out in a land where you are present, do not go out escaping from it."
Hadith - 46
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Neither Messiah (Ad-Dajjal) nor plague will enter Medina."
Hadith - 47
Narrated Anas bin Malik: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "(Death from) plague is martyrdom for every Muslim."
Hadith - 48
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "He (a Muslim) who dies of an abdominal disease is a martyr, and he who dies of plague is a martyr."
Hadith - 49
Narrated `Aisha (the wife of the Prophet): That she asked Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) about plague, and Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) informed her saying, "Plague was a punishment which Allah used to send on whom He wished, but Allah made it a blessing for the believers.
None (among the believers) remains patient in a land in which plague has broken out and considers that nothing will befall him except what Allah has ordained for him, but that Allah will grant him a reward similar to that of a martyr."