Hadith - 50
Narrated `Aisha: During the Prophet's fatal illness, he used to recite the Mu'auwidhat (Surat An-Nas and Surat Al-Falaq) and then blow his breath over his body.
When his illness was aggravated, I used to recite those two Suras and blow my breath over him and make him rub his body with his own hand for its blessings."
(Ma`mar asked Az-Zuhri: "How did the Prophet (ﷺ) use to blow?" Az-Zuhri said: "He used to blow on his hands and then passed them over his face.")
Hadith - 51
Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri: Some of the companions of the Prophet (ﷺ) came across a tribe amongst the tribes of the Arabs, and that tribe did not entertain them.
While they were in that state, the chief of that tribe was bitten by a snake (or stung by a scorpion). They said, (to the companions of the Prophet (ﷺ)), "Have you got any medicine with you or anybody who can treat with Ruqya?"
The Prophet's companions said, "You refuse to entertain us, so we will not treat (your chief) unless you pay us for it." So they agreed to pay them a flock of sheep.
One of them (the Prophet's companions) started reciting Surat al-Fatiha and gathering his saliva and spitting it (at the snake-bite).
The patient got cured and his people presented the sheep to them, but they said, "We will not take it unless we ask the Prophet (whether it is lawful)."
When they asked him, he smiled and said, "How do you know that Surat al-Fatiha is a Ruqya? Take it (flock of sheep) and assign a share for me."
Hadith - 52
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: Some of the companions of the Prophet (ﷺ) passed by some people staying at a place where there was water, and one of those people had been stung by a scorpion.
A man from those staying near the water, came and said to the companions of the Prophet, "Is there anyone among you who can do Ruqya, as near the water there is a person who has been stung by a scorpion?"
So one of the Prophet's companions went to him and recited Surat al-Fatiha for a sheep as his fees.
The patient got cured and the man brought the sheep to his companions who disliked that and said, "You have taken wages for reciting Allah's Book."
When they arrived at Medina, they said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! (This person) has taken wages for reciting Allah's Book." On that, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "You are most entitled to take wages for doing a Ruqya with Allah's Book."
Hadith - 53
Narrated `Aisha: The Prophet (ﷺ) ordered me or somebody else to do Ruqya (if there was danger) from an evil eye.
Hadith - 54
Narrated Um Salama: That the Prophet (ﷺ) saw in her house a girl whose face had a black spot. He said, "She is under the effect of an evil eye; so treat her with a Ruqya."
Hadith - 55
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The effect of an evil eye is a fact." And he prohibited tattooing.
Hadith - 56
Narrated Al-Aswad: I asked `Aisha about treating poisonous stings (a snake-bite or a scorpion sting) with a Ruqya. She said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) allowed the treatment of poisonous sting with Ruqya."
Hadith - 57
Narrated `Abdul `Aziz: Thabit and I went to Anas bin Malik. Thabit said, "O Abu Hamza! I am sick." On that, Anas said, "Shall I treat you with the Ruqya of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)?" Thabit said, "Yes."
Anas recited, "O Allah! The Lord of the people, the Remover of trouble! (Please) cure (Heal) (this patient), for You are the Healer. None brings about healing but You; a healing that will leave behind no ailment."
Hadith - 58
Narrated `Aisha: The Prophet (ﷺ) used to treat some of his wives by passing his right hand over the place of ailment and used to say, "O Allah, the Lord of the people! Remove the trouble and heal the patient, for You are the Healer. No healing is of any avail but Yours; healing that will leave behind no ailment."
Hadith - 59
Narrated `Aisha: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to treat with a Ruqya saying, "O the Lord of the people! Remove the trouble. The cure is in Your Hands, and there is none except You who can remove it (the disease)."
Hadith - 60
Narrated `Aisha: The Prophet (ﷺ) used to say to the patient, "In the Name of Allah, the earth of our land and the saliva of some of us cure our patient."
Hadith - 61
Narrated `Aisha: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to read in his Ruqya, "In the Name of Allah, The earth of our land and the saliva of some of us cure our patient with the permission of our Lord," with a slight shower of saliva while treating with a Ruqya.
Hadith - 62
Narrated Abu Qatada: I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "A good dream is from Allah, and a bad dream is from Satan.
So if anyone of you sees (in a dream) something he dislikes, when he gets up he should blow thrice (on his left side) and seek refuge with Allah from its evil for then it will not harm him."
Hadith - 63
Narrated `Aisha: Whenever Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) went to bed, he used to recite Surat Al-Ikhlas, Surat Al-Falaq and Surat An-Nas and then blow on his palms and pass them over his face and those parts of his body that his hands could reach.
And when he fell ill, he used to order me to do like that for him.
Hadith - 64
Narrated Abu Sa`id: A group of the companions of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) proceeded on a journey till they dismounted near one of the Arab tribes and requested them to entertain them as their guests, but they (the tribe people) refused to entertain them.
Then the chief of that tribe was bitten by a snake (or stung by a scorpion) and he was given all sorts of treatment, but all in vain.
Some of them said, "Will you go to the group (those travelers) who have dismounted near you and see if one of them has something useful?"
They came to them and said, "O the group! Our leader has been bitten by a snake (or stung by a scorpion) and we have treated him with everything, but nothing benefited him. Has anyone of you anything useful?"
One of them replied, "Yes, by Allah, I know how to treat with a Ruqya. But, by Allah, we wanted you to receive us as your guests but you refused. I will not treat your patient with a Ruqya till you fix for us something as wages." Consequently they agreed to give those travellers a flock of sheep.
The man went with them (the people of the tribe) and started spitting (on the bite) and reciting Surat al-Fatiha till the patient was healed and started walking as if he had not been sick.
When the tribe people paid them their wages they had agreed upon, some of them (the Prophet's companions) said, "Distribute (the sheep)." But the one who treated with the Ruqya said, "Do not do that till we go to Allah's Apostle and mention to him what has happened, and see what he will order us."
So they came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and mentioned the story to him and he said, "How do you know that Surat al-Fatiha is a Ruqya? You have done the right thing. Divide (what you have got) and assign for me a share with you."
Hadith - 65
Narrated `Aisha: The Prophet (ﷺ) used to treat some of his wives by passing his right hand over the place of ailment and used to say, "O Lord of the people! Remove the difficulty and bring about healing as You are the Healer. There is no healing but Your Healing, a healing that will leave no ailment."
Hadith - 66
Narrated `Aisha: The Prophet, during his fatal ailment used to blow (on his hands and pass them) over his body while reciting the Mu'auwidhat (Surat an-Nas and Surat al-Falaq).
When his disease got aggravated, I used to recite them for him and blow (on his hands) and let him pass his hands over his body because of its blessing.
(Ma`mar asked Ibn Shihab: "How did he use to do Nafth?" He said: "He used to blow on his hands and then pass them over his face").
Hadith - 67
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: The Prophet (ﷺ) once came out to us and said, "Some nations were displayed before me. A prophet would pass in front of me with one man, and another with two men, and another with a group of people, and another with nobody with him.
Then I saw a great crowd covering the horizon and I wished that they were my followers, but it was said to me, 'This is Moses and his followers.'
Then it was said to me, 'Look.' I looked and saw a big gathering with a large number of people covering the horizon. It was said, "Look this way and that way." So I saw a big crowd covering the horizon.
Then it was said to me, "These are your followers, and among them there are 70,000 who will enter Paradise without (being asked about their) accounts."
Then the people dispersed and the Prophet (ﷺ) did not tell who those 70,000 were.
So the companions of the Prophet (ﷺ) started talking about that and some of them said, "As regards us, we were born in the era of heathenism, but then we believed in Allah and His Apostle. We think however, that these (70,000) are our offspring."
That talk reached the Prophet (ﷺ) who said, "These (70,000) are the people who do not draw an evil omen from (birds) and do not get treated by branding themselves and do not treat with Ruqya, but put their trust (only) in their Lord."
Then 'Ukasha bin Muhsin got up and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Am I one of those (70,000)?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Yes." Then another person got up and said, "Am I one of them?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "'Ukasha has anticipated you."
Hadith - 68
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "There is neither 'Adwa (no contagious disease is conveyed to others without Allah's permission) nor Tiyara, but an evil omen may be in three: a woman, a house or an animal."
Hadith - 69
Narrated Abu Huraira: I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "There is no Tiyara, and the best omen is the Fa'l." They asked, "What is the Fa'l?" He said, "A good word that one of you hears (and takes as a good omen)."
Hadith - 70
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "There is no Tiyara and the best omen is the Fa'l." Somebody said, "What is the Fa'l, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)?" He said, "A good word that one of you hears (and takes as a good omen)."
Hadith - 71
Narrated Anas: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "No 'Adwa (no contagious disease is conveyed to others without Allah's permission), nor Tiyara, but I like the good Fa'l, i.e., the good word."
Hadith - 72
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "There is no 'Adwa, nor Tiyara, nor Hama, nor Safar."
Hadith - 73
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) gave his verdict about two ladies of the Hudhail tribe who had fought each other and one of them had hit the other with a stone. The stone hit her abdomen and as she was pregnant, the blow killed the child in her womb.
They both filed their case with the Prophet (ﷺ) and he judged that the blood money for what was in her womb was a slave or a female slave.
The guardian of the lady who was fined said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Shall I be fined for a creature that has neither drunk nor eaten, neither spoke nor cried? A case like that should be nullified."
On that, the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "This is one of the brothers of soothsayers."
Hadith - 74
Narrated Abu Huraira: Two ladies (had a fight) and one of them hit the other with a stone on the abdomen and caused her to abort. The Prophet (ﷺ) judged that the victim be given either a slave or a female slave (as blood-money).
Narrated Ibn Shihab: Sa`id bin Al-Musayyab said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) judged that in case of child killed in the womb of its mother, the offender should give the mother a slave or a female slave in recompense.
The offender said, 'How can I be fined for killing one who neither ate nor drank, neither spoke nor cried: a case like that should be denied.' On that, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, 'He is one of the brothers of the foretellers.'
Hadith - 75
Narrated Abu Mas`ud: The Prophet (ﷺ) forbade the utilization of the price of a dog, the earnings of prostitute and the earnings of a foreteller.
Hadith - 76
Narrated `Aisha: Some people asked Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) about the fore-tellers. He said, "They are nothing."
They said, 'O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Sometimes they tell us of a thing which turns out to be true." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "A Jinn snatches that true word and pours it into the ear of his friend (the fore-teller) (as one puts something into a bottle). The foreteller then mixes with that word one hundred lies."
Hadith - 77
Narrated `Aisha: A man called Labid bin al-A'sam from the tribe of Bani Zuraiq worked magic on Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) till Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) started imagining that he had done a thing that he had not really done.
One day or one night he was with us, he invoked Allah and invoked for a long period, and then said, "O `Aisha! Do you know that Allah has instructed me concerning the matter I have asked him about?
Two men came to me and one of them sat near my head and the other near my feet. One of them said to his companion, "What is the disease of this man?" The other replied, "He is under the effect of magic."
The first one asked, 'Who has worked the magic on him?' The other replied, "Labid bin Al-A'sam." The first one asked, 'What material did he use?' The other replied, 'A comb and the hairs stuck to it and the skin of pollen of a male date palm.'
The first one asked, 'Where is that?' The other replied, '(That is) in the well of Dharwan.'"
So Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) along with some of his companions went there and came back saying, "O `Aisha, the color of its water is like the infusion of Henna leaves. The tops of the date-palm trees near it are like the heads of the devils."
I asked, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)? Why did you not show it (to the people)?" He said, "Since Allah cured me, I disliked to let evil spread among the people." Then he ordered that the well be filled up with earth.
Hadith - 78
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Avoid the Mubiqat, i.e., shirk and witchcraft."
Hadith - 79
Narrated Aisha: Magic was worked on Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) so that he used to think that he had sexual relations with his wives while he actually had not. (Sufyan said: That is the hardest kind of magic as it has such an effect).
Then one day he said, "O `Aisha do you know that Allah has instructed me concerning the matter I asked Him about? Two men came to me and one of them sat near my head and the other sat near my feet.
The one near my head asked the other, 'What is wrong with this man?' The latter replied, 'He is under the effect of magic.' The first one asked, 'Who has worked magic on him?' The other replied, "Labid bin Al-A'sam (a man from Bani Zuraiq who was an ally of the Jews and was a hypocrite)."
The first one asked, 'What material did he use?' The other replied, 'A comb and the hair stuck to it.' The first one asked, 'Where (is that)?' The other replied, 'In a skin of pollen of a male date palm tree kept under a stone in the well of Dharwan.'
So the Prophet (ﷺ) went to that well and took out those things and said, "That was the well which was shown to me (in a dream). Its water looked like the infusion of Henna leaves and its date-palm trees looked like the heads of devils."
The Prophet (ﷺ) added, "Then that thing was taken out." I said (to the Prophet (ﷺ)), "Why do you not treat yourself with Nashra?" He said, "Allah has cured me; I dislike to let evil spread among my people."
Hadith - 80
Narrated `Aisha: Magic was worked on Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) so that he began to imagine that he had done something although he had not.
One day while he was with me, he invoked Allah and invoked for a long period and then said, "O `Aisha! Do you know that Allah has instructed me regarding the matter I asked Him about?" I asked, "What is that, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)?"
He said, "Two men came to me; one of them sat near my head and the other sat near my feet. One of them asked his companion, 'What is the disease of this man?' The other replied, 'He is under the effect of magic.'
The first one asked, 'Who has worked magic on him?" The other replied, "Labid bin A'sam, a Jew from the tribe of Bani Zuraiq."
The (first one asked), 'With what has it been done?' The other replied, 'With a comb and the hair stuck to it and a skin of the pollen of a male datepalm tree.' The first one asked, 'Where is it?' The other replied, 'In the well of Dharwan.'
Then the Prophet (ﷺ) went along with some of his companions to that well and looked at that and there were date palms near to it. Then he returned to me and said, 'By Allah the water of that well was (red) like the infusion of Henna leaves and its date-palms were like the heads of devils."
I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Did you take those materials out of the pollen skin?" He said, 'No! As for me, Allah has healed me and cured me, and I was afraid that (by showing that to the people) I would spread evil among them'.
Then he ordered that the well be filled up with earth, and it was filled up with earth.
Hadith - 81
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar: Two men came from the East and addressed the people who wondered at their eloquent speeches. On that, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Some eloquent speech is as effective as magic."
Hadith - 82
Narrated Sa'd: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If somebody takes some `Ajwa dates every morning, he will not be affected by poison or magic on that day till night." (Another narrator said seven dates).
Hadith - 83
Narrated Sa'd: I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "If somebody takes seven 'Ajwa dates in the morning, neither magic nor poison will hurt him that day."
Hadith - 84
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'No 'Adwa (i.e. no contagious disease is conveyed to others without Allah's permission); nor (any evil omen in the month of) Safar; nor Hama."
A bedouin said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! What about the camels which, when on the sand (desert) look like deers, but when a mangy camel mixes with them they all get infected with mange?"
On that, Allah's Apostle said, "Then who conveyed the (mange) disease to the first (mangy) camel?"
Hadith - 85
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said: The cattle (sheep, cows, camels, etc) suffering from a disease should not be mixed up with healthy cattle, (or said: "Do not put a patient with a healthy person") (as a precaution).
Hadith - 86
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "There is neither 'Adwa nor Tiyara, and an evil omen is only in three: a horse, a woman and a house."
Hadith - 87
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "No 'Adwa."
Abu Huraira also said: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The cattle suffering from a disease should not be mixed up with healthy cattle" (or said "Do not put a patient with a healthy person as a precaution.")
Abu Huraira also said: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "No 'Adwa." A bedouin got up and said, "Don't you see how camels on the sand look like deer but when a mangy camel mixes with them, they all get infected with mange?" On that, the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Then who conveyed the (mange) disease to the first camel?
Hadith - 88
Narrated Anas bin Malik: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "No 'Adwa nor Tiyara; but I like Fa'l." They said, "What is the Fa'l?" He said, "A good word."
Hadith - 89
Narrated Abu Huraira: When Khaibar was conquered, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was presented with a poisoned (roasted) sheep. Allah's Apostle said, "Collect for me all the Jews present in this area."
(When they were gathered) Allah's Apostle said to them, "I am going to ask you about something, will you tell me the truth?" They replied, "Yes, O Abal-Qasim!"
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said to them, "Who is your father?" They said, "Our father is so-and-so." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "You have told a lie. for your father is so-and-so," They said, "No doubt, you have said the truth and done the correct thing."
He again said to them, "If I ask you about something, will you tell me the truth?" They replied, "Yes, O Abal-Qasim! And if we should tell a lie you will know it as you have known it regarding our father."
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) then asked, "Who are the people of the (Hell) Fire?" They replied, "We will remain in the (Hell) Fire for a while and then you (Muslims) will replace us in it."
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said to them, "You will abide in it with ignominy. By Allah, we shall never replace you in it at all."
Then he asked them again, "If I ask you something, will you tell me the truth?" They replied, "Yes." He asked, "Have you put the poison in this roasted sheep?" They replied, "Yes."
He asked, "What made you do that?" They replied, "We intended to learn if you were a liar, in which case we would be relieved from you, and if you were a prophet then it would not harm you."
Hadith - 90
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Whoever purposely throws himself from a mountain and kills himself will be in the (Hell) Fire falling down into it and abiding therein perpetually forever; and whoever drinks poison and kills himself with it, he will be carrying his poison in his hand and drinking it in the (Hell) Fire wherein he will abide eternally forever; and whoever kills himself with an iron weapon, will be carrying that weapon in his hand and stabbing his abdomen with it in the (Hell) Fire wherein he will abide eternally forever."
Hadith - 91
Narrated Sa`d: I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "Whoever takes seven 'Ajwa dates in the morning will not be effected by magic or poison on that day."
Hadith - 92
Narrated Abu Tha`laba Al-Khushani: The Prophet (ﷺ) forbade the eating of wild animals having fangs. (Az-Zuhri said: I did not hear this narration except when I went to Sham.)
Al-Laith said: Narrated Yunus: I asked Ibn Shihab, "May we perform the ablution with the milk of she-asses or drink it, or drink the bile of wild animals or urine of camels?"
He replied, "The Muslims used to treat themselves with that and did not see any harm in it.
As for the milk of she-asses, we have learnt that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade the eating of their meat, but we have not received any information whether drinking of their milk is allowed or forbidden.
As for the bile of wild animals, Ibn Shihab said, "Abu Idris Al-Khaulani told me that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade the eating of the flesh of every wild beast having fangs."
Hadith - 93
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If a fly falls in the vessel of any of you, let him dip all of it (into the vessel) and then throw it away, for in one of its wings there is a disease and in the other there is healing (antidote for it, i.e. the treatment for that disease)."