Hadith - 1
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Allah will not look at the person who drags his garment (behind him) out of conceit."
Hadith - 2
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Allah will not look on the Day of Resurrection at the person who drags his garment (behind him) out of conceit."
On that, Abu Bakr said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! One side of my Izar hangs low if I do not take care of it." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "You are not one of those who do that out of conceit."
Hadith - 3
Narrated Abu Bakra: The solar eclipse occurred while we were sitting with the Prophet (ﷺ). He got up dragging his garment (on the ground) hurriedly till he reached the mosque.
The people turned (to the mosque) and he offered a two-rak`at prayer, whereupon the eclipse was over and he addressed us and said, "The sun and the moon are two signs among the signs of Allah, so if you see a thing like this (eclipse) then offer the prayer and invoke Allah till He removes that state."
Hadith - 4
Narrated Abu Juhaifa: I saw Bilal bringing a short spear (or stick) and fixing it in the ground, and then he proclaimed the Iqama of the prayer, and I saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) coming out, wearing a cloak with its sleeves rolled up.
He then offered a two-rak`at prayer while facing the stick, and I saw the people and animals passing in front of him beyond the stick.
Hadith - 5
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The part of an Izar which hangs below the ankles is in the Fire."
Hadith - 6
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Allah will not look, on the Day of Resurrection, at a person who drags his Izar (behind him) out of pride and arrogance."
Hadith - 7
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (or Abul-Qasim) said, "While a man was walking, clad in a two-piece garment and proud of himself with his hair well-combed, suddenly Allah made him sink into the earth, and he will go on sinking into it till the Day of Resurrection."
Hadith - 8
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "While a man was dragging his Izar on the ground (behind him), suddenly Allah made him sink into the earth, and he will go on sinking into it till the Day of Resurrection."
Narrated Abu Huraira: That he heard the Prophet (narrating as above).
Hadith - 9
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Whoever drags his clothes (on the ground) out of pride and arrogance, Allah will not look at him on the Day of Resurrection."
Hadith - 10
Narrated `Aisha (the wife of the Prophet): The wife of Rifa`a Al-Qurazi came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) while I was sitting, and Abu Bakr was also there.
She said, "O Allah's Apostle! I was the wife of Rifa`a and he divorced me irrevocably. Then I married `Abdur-Rahman bin Az-Zubair who, by Allah, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), has only something like a fringe of a garment," showing the fringe of her veil.
Khalid bin Sa`id, who was standing at the door, for he had not been admitted, heard her statement and said, "O Abu Bakr! Why do you not stop this lady from saying such things openly before Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)?"
No, by Allah, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) did nothing but smiled. Then he said to the lady, "Perhaps you want to return to Rifa`a? That is impossible unless `Abdur-Rahman consummates his marriage with you." That became the tradition after him.
Hadith - 11
Narrated `Ali: The Prophet (ﷺ) asked for his Rida, put it on and set out walking. Zaid bin Haritha and I followed him till he reached the house where Hamza (bin `Abdul Muttalib) was present and asked for permission to enter, and they gave us permission.
Hadith - 12
Narrated Ibn `Umar: A man asked, "O Allah's Apostle! What kind of clothes should a Muhrim wear?"
The Prophet said, "A Muhrim should not wear a shirt, trousers, a hooded cloak, or Khuffs (socks made from thick fabric or leather) unless he cannot get sandals, in which case he should cut the part (of the Khuff) that covers the ankles."
Hadith - 13
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah: The Prophet (ﷺ) came to visit `Abdullah bin Ubai (bin Salul) after he had been put in his grave. The Prophet (ﷺ) ordered that `Abdullah be taken out.
He was taken out and was placed on the knees of the Prophet, who blew his (blessed) breath on him and dressed the body with his own shirt. And Allah knows better.
Hadith - 14
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar: When `Abdullah bin Ubaiy (bin Salul) died, his son came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and said, "O Allah's Apostle, give me your shirt so that I may shroud my father's body in it. And please offer a funeral prayer for him and invoke Allah for his forgiveness."
The Prophet (ﷺ) gave him his shirt and said to him, "Inform us when you finish (and when the funeral procession is ready) call us."
When he had finished, he told the Prophet (ﷺ) and the Prophet (ﷺ) proceeded to offer his funeral prayers but `Umar stopped him and said, "Didn't Allah forbid you to offer the funeral prayer for the hypocrites when He said: "Whether you (O Muhammad) ask forgiveness for them or ask not forgiveness for them: (and even) if you ask forgiveness for them seventy times, Allah will not forgive them." (Surah 9: Ayah 80)?
Then there was revealed: "And never (O Muhammad) pray for any of them that dies, nor stand at his grave" (Surah 9: Ayah 34). Thenceforth the Prophet (ﷺ) did not offer funeral prayers for the hypocrites.
Hadith - 15
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) has set forth an example for a miser and a charitable person by comparing them to two men wearing two iron cloaks and their hands are raised to their breasts and necks.
Whenever the charitable man tries to give a charitable gift, his iron cloak expands till it becomes so wide that it will cover his fingertips and obliterate his tracks.
And whenever the miser wants to give a charitable gift, his cloak becomes very tight over him and every ring gets stuck to its place.
Abu Huraira added: I saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) putting his finger in the (chest) pocket of his shirt like that. If you but saw him trying to widen (the opening of his shirt) but it did not widen.
Hadith - 16
Narrated Al-Mughira bin Shu`ba: The Prophet (ﷺ) went to answer the call of nature, and when he returned, I met him with water and he performed the ablution while he was wearing a Sham cloak.
He rinsed his mouth, put the water in his nose and blew it out, washed his face and tried to take his hands out of his sleeves, but they were too narrow, so he took out his hands from under his chest and washed them, and then passed his wet hands over his head and Khuffs (socks made from thick fabric or leather).
Hadith - 17
Narrated Al-Mughira: One night I was with the Prophet (ﷺ) on a journey. He asked (me), "Have you got water with you?" I replied, "Yes." So he got down from his she-camel and went away till he disappeared in the darkness of the night.
Then he came back and I poured water for him from the pot (for the ablution). He washed his face and hands while he was wearing a woollen cloak (the sleeves of which were narrow), so he could not take his arms out of it. So he took them out from underneath the cloak. Then he washed his forearms and passed his wet hands over his head.
Then I tried to take off his Khuffs (socks made from thick fabric or leather), but he said, "Leave them, for I have performed ablution before putting them on." And so he passed his wet hands over them.
Hadith - 18
Narrated Al-Miswar bin Makhrama: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) distributed some Qaba's but he did not give anything to Makhrama. Makhrama said (to me), "O my son! Let us go to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)."
So I proceeded with him and he said, "Go in and call him for me." So I called the Prophet (ﷺ) for him.
The Prophet (ﷺ) came out to him, wearing one of those Qaba's and said, (to Makhrama), "I have kept this for you." Makhrama looked at it and said, "Makhrama is satisfied now."
Hadith - 19
Narrated `Uqba bin 'Amir: A silken Farruj was presented to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and he put it on and offered the prayer in it.
When he finished the prayer, he took it off violently as if he disliked it and said, "This (garment) does not befit those who fear Allah!"
Hadith - 20
Narrated Mu'tamir: I heard my father saying, "I saw Anas wearing a yellow hooded cloak of Khazz."
Hadith - 21
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar: A man said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! What type of clothes should a Muhrim wear?"
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) replied, "Do not wear shirts, turbans, trousers, hooded cloaks or Khuffs (socks made from thick fabric or leather); but if someone cannot get sandals, then he can wear Khuffs after cutting them short below the ankles.
Do not wear clothes touched by saffron or wars (two kinds of perfumes)."
Hadith - 22
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Whoever cannot get an Izar can wear trousers, and whoever cannot wear sandals can wear Khuffs (socks made from thick fabric or leather)."
Hadith - 23
Narrated `Abdullah: A man got up and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! What do you order us to wear when we assume the state of Ihram?"
The Prophet (ﷺ) replied, "Do not wear shirts, trousers, turbans, hooded cloaks or Khuffs (socks made from thick fabric or leather), but if a man has no sandals, he can wear Khuffs after cutting them short below the ankles; and do not wear clothes touched with (perfumes) of saffron or wars."
Hadith - 24
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "A Muhrim should not wear a shirt, a turban, trousers, hooded cloaks, a garment touched with (perfumes) of saffron or wars, or Khuffs (socks made from thick fabric or leather) except if one has no sandals, in which case he should cut short the Khuffs below the ankles."
Hadith - 25
Narrated `Aisha: Some Muslim men emigrated to Ethiopia whereupon Abu Bakr also prepared himself for the emigration, but the Prophet (ﷺ) said (to him), "Wait, for I hope that Allah will allow me also to emigrate."
Abu Bakr said, "Let my father and mother be sacrificed for you. Do you hope that (emigration)?" The Prophet said, "Yes."
So Abu Bakr waited to accompany the Prophet (ﷺ) and fed two she-camels he had on the leaves of As-Samur tree regularly for four months.
One day while we were sitting in our house at midday, someone said to Abu Bakr, "Here is Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), coming with his head and a part of his face covered with a cloth-covering at an hour he never used to come to us."
Abu Bakr said, "Let my father and mother be sacrificed for you, (O Prophet)! An urgent matter must have brought you here at this hour." The Prophet (ﷺ) came and asked the permission to enter, and he was allowed.
The Prophet (ﷺ) entered and said to Abu Bakr, "Let those who are with you go out." Abu Bakr replied, "(There is no stranger); they are your family. Let my father be sacrificed for you, O Allah's Apostle!"
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I have been allowed to leave (Mecca)." Abu Bakr said, "I shall accompany you, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), let my father be sacrificed for you!" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Yes."
Abu Bakr said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Let my father be sacrificed for you. Take one of these two she-camels of mine." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I will take it only after paying its price."
So we prepared their baggage and put their journey food in a leather bag. And Asma' bint Abu Bakr cut a piece of her girdle and tied the mouth of the leather bag with it. That is why she was called Dhatan-Nitaqain.
Then the Prophet (ﷺ) and Abu Bakr went to a cave in a mountain called Thour and remained there for three nights.
`Abdullah bin Abu Bakr, who was a young intelligent man, used to stay with them at night and leave before dawn, so that in the morning he would be with the Quraish at Mecca as if he had spent the night among them.
If he heard of any plot contrived by the Quraish against the Prophet and Abu Bakr, he would understand it and (return to) inform them of it when it became dark.
'Amir bin Fuhaira, the freed slave of Abu Bakr used to graze a flock of milch sheep for them and he used to take those sheep to them when an hour had passed after the `Isha prayer.
They would sleep soundly till 'Amir bin Fuhaira awakened them when it was still dark. He used to do that in each of those three nights.
Hadith - 26
Narrated Anas bin Malik: In the year of the conquest of Mecca, the Prophet (ﷺ) entered Mecca wearing a helmet on his head.
Hadith - 27
Narrated Anas bin Malik: Once I was walking with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and he was wearing a Najran Burd with thick margin.
A bedouin followed him and pulled his Burd so violently that I noticed the side of the shoulder of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) affected by the margin of the Burd because of that violent pull.
The Bedouin said, "O Muhammad! Give me some of Allah's wealth which is with you." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) turned and looked at him, and smiling, he ordered that he be given something.
Hadith - 28
Narrated Abu Hazim: Sahl bin Sa`d said, "A lady came with a Burda." Sahl then asked (the people), "Do you know what Burda is?" Somebody said, "Yes. It is a Shamla with a woven border."
Sahl added, 'The lady said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! I have knitted this (Burda) with my own hands for you to wear it." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) took it and he was in need of it.
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) came out to us and he was wearing it as an Izar. A man from the people felt it and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Give it to me to wear." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Yes."
Then he sat there for some time (and when he went to his house), he folded it and sent it to him. The people said to that man, "You have not done a right thing. You asked him for it, though you know that he does not put down anybody's request."
The man said, "By Allah! I have only asked him so that it may be my shroud when I die."' Sahl added, "Later, it was his shroud."
Hadith - 29
Narrated Abu Huraira: I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "From among my followers, a group (of 70,000) will enter Paradise without being asked for their accounts. Their faces will be shining like the moon."
'Ukasha bin Muhsin Al-Asadi got up, lifting his covering sheet and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Invoke Allah for me that He may include me with them." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O Allah! Make him from them."
Then another man from Al-Ansar got up and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Invoke Allah for me that He may include me with them." On that, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "'Ukasha has anticipated you."
Hadith - 30
Narrated Qatada: I asked Anas, "What kind of clothes was most beloved to the Prophet?" He replied, "The Hibra (a kind of Yemenese cloth)."
Hadith - 31
Narrated Anas bin Malik: The most beloved garment to the Prophet (ﷺ) to wear was the Hibra (a kind of Yemenese cloth).
Hadith - 32
Narrated `Aisha (the wife of the Prophet): When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) died, he was covered with a Hibra Burd (green square decorated garment).
Hadith - 33
Narrated `Aisha and `Abdullah bin `Abbas: When the disease of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) got aggravated, he covered his face with a Khamisa, but when he became short of breath, he would remove it from his face and say, "It is like that! May Allah curse the Jews and Christians because they took the graves of their prophets as places of worship."
By that, he warned his followers of imitating them by doing that which they did.
Hadith - 34
Narrated Aisha: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) offered prayer while he was wearing a Khamisa of his that had printed marks.
He looked at its marks and when he finished prayer, he said, "Take this Khamisa of mine to Abu Jahm, for it has just now diverted my attention from my prayer, and bring to me the Anbijania (a plain thick sheet) of Abu Jahm bin Hudhaifa bin Ghanim who belonged to Bani Adi bin Ka`b."
Hadith - 35
Narrated Abu Burda: Aisha brought out to us a Kisa and an Izar and said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) died while wearing these two." (Kisa, a square black piece of woolen cloth. Izar, a sheet cloth garment covering the lower half of the body).
Hadith - 36
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) had forbidden: (1) the Mulamasa and Munabadha (bargains)
(2) the offering of two prayers, one after the morning compulsory prayer till the sun rises, and the other after the `Asr prayer till the sun sets
(3) He also forbade that one should sit wearing one garment, nothing of which covers his private parts
(4) and prevent them from exposure to the sky
(5) he also forbade Ishtimal-as-Samma.
Hadith - 37
Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade two ways of wearing clothes and two kinds of dealings.
(1) He forbade the dealings of the Mulamasa and the Munabadha. In the Mulamasa transaction, the buyer just touches the garment he wants to buy at night or by daytime, and that touch would oblige him to buy it.
In the Munabadha, one man throws his garment at another and the latter throws his at the former and the barter is complete and valid without examining the two objects or being satisfied with them
(2) The two ways of wearing clothes were Ishtimal-as-Samma, i.e., to cover one's shoulder with one's garment and leave the other bare.
And the other way was to wrap oneself with a garment while one was sitting in such a way that nothing of that garment would cover one's private part.
Hadith - 38
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade two types of dresses: (A) To sit in an Ihtiba' posture in one garment, nothing of which covers his private parts.
(B) to cover one side of his body with one garment and leave the other side bare.
The Prophet (ﷺ) also forbade the Mulamasa and Munabadha.
Hadith - 39
Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri: The Prophet (ﷺ) forbade Ishtimal-as-Samma', and that a man should sit in an Ihtiba' posture in one garment, nothing of which covers his private parts.
Hadith - 40
Narrated Um Khalid bint Khalid: The Prophet (ﷺ) was given some clothes including a black Khamisa. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "To whom shall we give this to wear?" The people kept silent, whereupon the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Fetch Um Khalid for me."
I (Um Khalid) was brought carried (as I was a small girl at that time). The Prophet (ﷺ) took the Khamisa in his hands and made me wear it and said, "May you live so long that your dress will wear out and you will mend it many times."
On the Khamisa there were some green or pale designs. The Prophet (ﷺ) (saw these designs) and said, "O Um Khalid! This is Sanah." (Sanah is a Ethiopian word meaning beautiful).
Hadith - 41
Narrated Anas: When Um Sulaim gave birth to a child, she said to me, "O Anas! Watch this boy carefully and do not give him anything to eat or drink until you have taken him to the Prophet (ﷺ) tomorrow morning for the Tahnik."
So the next morning, I took the child to the Prophet (ﷺ) who was sitting in a garden and was wearing a Huraithiya Khamisa and was branding the she-camel on which he had come during the Conquest of Mecca.
Hadith - 42
Narrated `Ikrima: Rifa`a divorced his wife, whereupon `Abdur-Rahman bin Az-Zubair Al-Qurazi married her. `Aisha said that the lady (came), wearing a green veil (and complained to her (Aisha) of her husband and showed her a green spot on her skin caused by beating).
It was the habit of ladies to support each other, so when Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) came, `Aisha said, "I have not seen any woman suffering as much as the believing women. Look! Her skin is greener than her clothes!"
When `Abdur-Rahman heard that his wife had gone to the Prophet, he came with his two sons from another wife. She said, "By Allah! I have done no wrong to him but he is impotent and is as useless to me as this," holding and showing the fringe of her garment.
`Abdur-Rahman said, "By Allah, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! She has told a lie! I am very strong and can satisfy her but she is disobedient and wants to go back to Rifa`a."
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said to her, "If that is your intention, then know that it is unlawful for you to remarry Rifa`a unless `Abdur-Rahman has had sexual intercourse with you."
Then the Prophet (ﷺ) saw two boys with `Abdur-Rahman and asked (him), "Are these your sons?" On that, `Abdur-Rahman said, "Yes." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "You claim what you claim (i.e. that he is impotent)? But by Allah, these boys resemble him as a crow resembles a crow."
Hadith - 43
Narrated Sa`d: On the day of the battle of Uhud, on the right and on the left of the Prophet (ﷺ) were two men wearing white clothes, and I had neither seen them before, nor did I see them afterwards.
Hadith - 44
Narrated Abu Dharr: I came to the Prophet (ﷺ) while he was wearing white clothes and sleeping. Then I went back to him again after he had got up from his sleep.
He said, 'Nobody says: "None has the right to be worshipped but Allah" and then later on he dies while believing in that, except that he will enter Paradise.'
I said, "Even if he had committed illegal sexual intercourse and theft?" He said, "Even if he had committed illegal sexual intercourse and theft."
I said, "Even if he had committed illegal sexual intercourse and theft?" He said, "Even if he had committed illegal sexual intercourse and theft."
I said, "Even if he had committed illegal sexual intercourse and theft?" He said, "Even if he had committed illegal sexual intercourse and theft, inspite of the Abu Dharr's dislike."
Abu `Abdullah said, "This is at the time of death or before it if one repents and regrets and says, 'None has the right to be worshipped but Allah.' He will be forgiven his sins."
Hadith - 45
Narrated Aba `Uthman An-Nahdi: While we were with `Utba bin Farqad at Adharbijan, there came `Umar's letter indicating that Allah's Apostle had forbidden the use of silk except this much, then he pointed with his index and middle fingers. To our knowledge, by that he meant embroidery.
Hadith - 46
Narrated Abu `Uthman: While we were at Adharbijan, `Umar wrote to us: "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade wearing silk except this much. Then the Prophet (ﷺ) approximated his two fingers (index and middle fingers) (to illustrate that) to us."
Zuhair (the sub-narrator) raised up his middle and index fingers.
Hadith - 47
Narrated Abu `Uthman: While we were with `Utba, `Umar wrote to us: 'The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "There is none who wears silk in this world except that he will wear nothing of it in the Hereafter."'
Abu `Uthman pointed out with his middle and index fingers. This hadith has also been narrated by Abu `Uthman.
Hadith - 48
Narrated Ibn Abi Laila: While Hudhaifa was at Al-Madain, he asked for water, whereupon the chief of the village brought him water in a silver cup. Hudhaifa threw it at him and said, "I have thrown it only because I have forbidden him to use it, but he does not stop using it.
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, 'Gold, silver, silk and Dibaj (a kind of silk) are for them (unbelievers) in this world and for you (Muslims) in the hereafter.'"
Hadith - 49
Narrated Anas bin Malik: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Whoever wears silk in this world shall not wear it in the Hereafter."
Hadith - 50
Narrated Thabit: I heard Ibn Az-Zubair delivering a sermon, saying, "Muhammad said, 'Whoever wears silk in this world shall not wear it in the Hereafter.'"
Hadith - 51
Narrated Ibn Az-Zubair: I heard `Umar saying, "The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'Whoever wears silk in this world, shall not wear it in the Hereafter.'" This hadith is also narrated through 'Umar Ibn al-Khattab.
Hadith - 52
Narrated 'Umar bin Al-Khattab: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "None wears silk in this world, but he who will have no share in the Hereafter."
Hadith - 53
Narrated Al-Bara: The Prophet (ﷺ) was given a silk garment as a gift and we started touching it with our hands and admiring it.
On that, the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Do you wonder at this?" We said, "Yes." He said, "The handkerchiefs of Sa`d bin Mu`adh in Paradise are better than this."
Hadith - 54
Narrated Hudhaifa: The Prophet (ﷺ) forbade us to drink out of gold and silver vessels, or eat in it, and also forbade the wearing of silk and Dibaj or sitting on it.
Hadith - 55
Narrated Ibn Azib: The Prophet (ﷺ) forbade us to use the red Mayathir and to use Al-Qassiy.
Hadith - 56
Narrated Anas: The Prophet (ﷺ) allowed Az-Zubair and `Abdur-Rahman to wear silk because they were suffering from an itch.
Hadith - 57
Narrated `Ali bin Abi Talib: The Prophet (ﷺ) gave me a silk suit. I went out wearing it, but seeing the signs of anger on his face, I tore it and distributed it among my wives.
Hadith - 58
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar: `Umar saw a silk suit being sold, so he said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Why don't you buy it so that you may wear it when delegates come to you, and also on Fridays?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "This is worn only by him who has no share in the Hereafter."
Afterwards, the Prophet (ﷺ) sent to `Umar a silk suit suitable for wearing. `Umar said to the Prophet (ﷺ), "You have given it to me to wear, yet I have heard you saying about it what you said?"
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I sent it to you so that you might either sell it or give it to somebody else to wear."
Hadith - 59
Narrated Anas bin Malik: That he had seen Um Kulthum, the daughter of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), wearing a red silk garment.
Hadith - 60
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: For one year I wanted to ask `Umar about the two women who helped each other against the Prophet (ﷺ) but I was afraid of him.
One day, he dismounted his riding animal and went among the trees of Arak to answer the call of nature, and when he returned, I asked him and he said, "(They were) `Aisha and Hafsa."
Then he added, "We never used to give significance to ladies in the days of the Pre-Islamic period of ignorance, but when Islam came and Allah mentioned their rights, we used to give them their rights but did not allow them to interfere in our affairs.
Once there was some dispute between me and my wife and she answered me back in a loud voice. I said to her, 'Strange! You can retort in this way?' She said, 'Yes. Do you say this to me while your daughter troubles Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)?'
So I went to Hafsa and said to her, 'I warn you not to disobey Allah and His Apostle.' I first went to Hafsa and then to Um Salama and told her the same.
She said to me, 'O `Umar! It surprises me that you interfere in our affairs so much that you would poke your nose even into the affairs of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and his wives.' So she rejected my advice.
There was an Ansari man; whenever he was absent from Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and I was present there, I used to convey to him what had happened (on that day), and when I was absent and he was present there, he used to convey to me what had happened as regards news from Allah's Messenger (ﷺ).
During that time, all the rulers of the nearby lands had surrendered to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) except the king of Ghassan in Sham, and we were afraid that he might attack us.
All of a sudden the Ansari came and said, 'A great event has happened!' I asked him, 'What is it? Has the Ghassani (king) come?' He said, 'Greater than that! Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) has divorced his wives!'
I went to them and found all of them weeping in their dwellings, and the Prophet (ﷺ) had ascended to an upper room of his. At the door of the room there was a slave to whom I went and said, "Ask the permission for me to enter."
He admitted me and I entered to see the Prophet (ﷺ) lying on a mat that had left its imprint on his side. Under his head there was a leather pillow stuffed with palm fibres.
Behold! There were some hides hanging there and some grass for tanning. Then I mentioned what I had said to Hafsa and Um Salama and what reply Um Salama had given me. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) smiled and stayed there for twenty nine days and then came down."
Hadith - 61
Narrated Um Salama: One night the Prophet (ﷺ) woke up, saying, "None has the right to be worshipped but Allah! How many afflictions have been sent down tonight, and how many treasures have been sent down (disclosed)!
Who will go and wake up (for prayers) the lady dwellers of these rooms? Many well dressed soul (people) in this world will be naked on the Day of Resurrection."
Hadith - 62
Narrated Um Khalid bint Khalid: Some clothes were presented to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as a gift and there was a black Khamisa with it. The Prophet asked (his companions), "To whom do you suggest we give this Khamisa?" The people kept quiet.
Then he said, "Bring me Um Khalid." So I was brought to him and he dressed me with it with his own hands and said twice, "May you live so long that you will wear out many garments."
He then started looking at the embroidery of that Khamisa and said, "O Um Khalid! This is Sana!" (Sana in Ethiopian language means beautiful.)
'Is-haq, a sub-narrator, said: A woman of my family had told me that she had seen the Khamisa worn by Um Khalid.