Hadith - 63
Narrated Anas: The Prophet (ﷺ) forbade men to use saffron.
Hadith - 64
Narrated Ibn `Umar: The Prophet (ﷺ) forbade Muhrims to wear clothes dyed with Wars or saffron.
Hadith - 65
Narrated Al-Bara: The Prophet (ﷺ) was of a modest height. I saw him wearing a red suit, and I did not see anything better than him.
Hadith - 66
Narrated Al-Bara: The Prophet (ﷺ) ordered us to observe seven things: To visit the sick; follow funeral processions; say 'May Allah bestow His Mercy on you', to the sneezer if he says, 'Praise be to Allah!'
He forbade us to wear silk, Dibaj, Qassiy and Istabraq (various kinds of silken clothes); or to use red Mayathir (silk cushions).
Hadith - 67
Narrated Sa`id Abu Maslama: I asked Anas (bin Malik), "Did the Prophet (ﷺ) use to offer the prayers with his shoes on?" He said, "Yes."
Hadith - 68
Narrated Sa`id Al-Maqburi: 'Ubai bin Juraij said to `Abdullah bin `Umar, "I see you doing four things which are not done by your friends." Ibn `Umar said, "What are they, O Ibn Juraij?"
He said, "I see that you do not touch except the two Yemenite corners of the Ka`ba (while performing the Tawaf); and I see you wearing the Sibtiyya shoes; and I see you dyeing (your hair) with Sufra; and I see that when you are in Mecca the people assume the state of Ihram on seeing the crescent (on the first day of Dhul-Hijja) while you do not assume the state of Ihram till the Day of Tarwiya (8th Dhul Hijja)."
`Abdullah bin `Umar said to him, "As for the corners of the Ka`ba, I have not seen Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) touching except the two Yemenite corners.
As for the Sibtiyya shoes, I saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) wearing leather shoes that had no hair, and he used to perform the ablution while wearing them. Therefore, I like to wear such shoes.
As regards dyeing with Sufra, I saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) dyeing his hair with it, so I like to dye (my hair) with it.
As regards the crescent (of Dhul-Hijja), I have not seen Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) assuming the state of Ihram till his she-camel set out (on the 8th of Dhul-Hijja)."
Hadith - 69
Narrated Ibn `Umar: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade that a Muhrim should wear clothes dyed with Saffron or Wars, and said, "Whoever has no shoes can put on Khuffs (socks made from thick fabric or leather) after cutting it below the ankles."
Hadith - 70
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Whoever has no Izar (waist sheet), can wear trousers; and whoever has no sandals, can wear Khuffs (socks made from thick fabric or leather, but cut them short below the ankles)."
Hadith - 71
Narrated `Aisha: The Prophet (ﷺ) used to like starting from the right in performing ablution, combing his hair, and putting on his shoes.
Hadith - 72
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If you want to put on your shoes, put on the right shoe first; and if you want to take them off, take off the left one first. Let the right shoe be the first to be put on and the last to be taken off."
Hadith - 73
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "None of you should walk wearing one shoe only; he should either put on both shoes or put on no shoes whatsoever."
Hadith - 74
Narrated Anas: The sandal of the Prophet (ﷺ) had two straps.
Hadith - 75
Narrated Isa bin Tahman: Anas bin Malik brought out for us two sandals having two straps. Thabit Al-Bunani said, "These were the sandals of the Prophet (ﷺ)."
Hadith - 76
Narrated Abu Juhaifa: I came to the Prophet (ﷺ) while he was inside a red leather tent, and I saw Bilal taking the remaining water of the ablution of the Prophet, and the people were taking of that water and rubbing it on their faces; and whoever could not get anything of it, would share the moisture of the hand of his companion (and then rub it on his face).
Hadith - 77
Narrated Anas bin Malik: The Prophet (ﷺ) called for the Ansar and gathered them in a leather tent.
Hadith - 78
Narrated `Aisha: The Prophet (ﷺ) used to construct a room with a Hasir at night in order to pray therein, and during the day he used to spread it out and sit on it. The people started coming to the Prophet (ﷺ) at night to offer the prayer behind him.
When their number increased, the Prophet (ﷺ) faced them and said, "O people! Do only those good deeds which you can do, for Allah does not get tired (of giving reward) till you get tired, and the best deeds to Allah are the incessant ones though they were few."
Hadith - 79
Narrated Al-Miswar bin Makhrama: My father Makhrama said to me, "I have come to know that some cloaks have come to the Prophet (ﷺ) and he is distributing them. So, O my son! Take me to him."
We went to the Prophet (ﷺ) and found him in the house. My father said to me, "O my son! Call the Prophet (ﷺ) for me." I found it hard to do so, so I said surprisingly, "Shall I call Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) for you?" My father said, "O my son! He is not a tyrant."
So I called him and he came out wearing a Dibaj cloak having gold buttons and said, "O Makhrama, I kept this for you." The Prophet (ﷺ) then gave it to him.
Hadith - 80
Narrated Al-Bara' bin `Azib: The Prophet (ﷺ) forbade us to use seven things: He forbade using gold rings, silk, Istabraq, Dibaj, red Mayathir, Al-Qassiy, and silver utensils.
He ordered us to do seven other things: To pay a visit to the sick; to follow funeral processions; to say, "May Allah be merciful to you" to a sneezer if he says, "Praise be to Allah"; to return greetings; to accept invitations; to help others to fulfil their oaths and to help the oppressed ones.
Hadith - 81
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) forbade the wearing of a gold ring.
Hadith - 82
Narrated `Abdullah: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) wore a gold or silver ring and placed its stone towards the palm of his hand. The people also started wearing gold rings like it, but when the Prophet (ﷺ) saw them wearing such rings, he threw away that golden ring and then wore a silver ring.
Hadith - 83
Narrated Ibn `Umar: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) wore a gold ring or a silver ring and placed its stone towards the palm of his hand and had the name "Muhammad, the Messenger of Allah" engraved on it.
The people also started wearing gold rings like it, but when the Prophet (ﷺ) saw them wearing such rings, he threw away his own ring and said, "I will never wear it," and then wore a silver ring, whereupon the people too started wearing silver rings.
Ibn `Umar added: After the Prophet (ﷺ), Abu Bakr wore the ring, and then `Umar and then `Uthman wore it, till it fell in the Aris well from `Uthman.
Hadith - 84
Narrated Abdullah bin `Umar: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) wore a gold ring, then he threw it and said, "I will never wear it." The people also threw their (gold) rings.
Hadith - 85
Narrated Anas bin Malik: That he saw a silver ring on the hand of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) for one day only. Then the people had silver rings made for themselves and wore it. On that, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) threw away their rings as well.
Hadith - 86
Narrated Humaid: Anas was asked, "Did the Prophet (ﷺ) wear a ring?" Anas said, "Once he delayed the `Isha' prayer till midnight. Then he came, facing us - as if I am now looking at the glitter of his ring - and said, 'The people have offered their prayers and slept, but you have been in prayer as you have been waiting for it.'"
Hadith - 87
Narrated Anas: The ring of the Prophet (ﷺ) was of silver, and its stone was of silver too.
Hadith - 88
Narrated Sahl: A woman came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said, "I have come to present myself to you (for marriage)." She kept standing for a long period during which period the Prophet (ﷺ) looked at her carefully.
When she stayed for a long period, a man said to the Prophet (ﷺ), "If you are not in need of her, then marry her to me." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Have you got anything to give her (as Mahr)?" The man said, "No."
The Prophet said, "Go (to your house) and search for something." The man went and came back to say, "By Allah, I could not find anything."
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Go again and search for something, even if it be an iron ring." He went again and came back saying, "No, by Allah, I could not get even an iron ring."
The man had only an Izar and had no Rida' (upper garment). He said, "I will give her my Izar as Mahr." On that, the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Your Izar? If she wears it, nothing of it will remain on you, and if you wear it, nothing of it will be on her."
The man went aside and sat down. When the Prophet (ﷺ) saw him leaving (after a while), he called back and asked, "How much Qur'an do you know (by heart)?" He said, "I know such and such Suras," naming some Suras.
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I marry her to you for the amount of Qur'an you know (by heart)."
Hadith - 89
Narrated Anas bin Malik: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) wanted to write a letter to a group of people or some non-Arabs. It was said to him, "They do not accept any letter unless it is stamped."
So the Prophet (ﷺ) had a silver ring made for himself, and on it was engraved: "Muhammad, the Messenger of Allah" ... as if I am now looking at the glitter of the ring on the finger (or in the palm) of the Prophet (ﷺ).
Hadith - 90
Narrated Ibn `Umar: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had a silver ring made for himself and it was worn by him on his hand. Afterwards it was worn by Abu Bakr, and then by `Umar, and then by `Uthman till it fell in the Aris well. (On that ring) was engraved: "Muhammad, the Messenger of Allah."
Hadith - 91
Narrated Anas: The Prophet (ﷺ) got a ring made for himself and said, "I have got a ring made (for myself) and engraved a certain engraving on it, so none of you should get such an engraving on his ring." I saw the glitter of the ring on his little finger.
Hadith - 92
Narrated Anas bin Malik: When the Prophet (ﷺ) intended to write to the Byzantines, it was said to him, "Those people do not read your letter unless it is stamped."
So the Prophet (ﷺ) took a silver ring and got "Muhammad, the Apostle of Allah" engraved on it ... as if I am now looking at its glitter in his hand.
Hadith - 93
Narrated `Abdullah: The Prophet (ﷺ) had a golden ring made for himself, and when he wore it, he used to turn its stone towards the palm of his hand. So the people too had gold rings made for themselves.
The Prophet (ﷺ) then ascended the pulpit, and after glorifying and praising Allah, he said, "I had it made for me, but now I will never wear it again." He threw it away, and then the people threw away their rings too.
(Juwairiya, a subnarrator, said: I think Anas said that the Prophet (ﷺ) was wearing the ring in his right hand.)
Hadith - 94
Narrated Anas bin Malik: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) took a silver ring and had "Muhammad, the Apostle of Allah" engraved on it.
The Prophet then said (to us), 'I have a silver ring with "Muhammad, the Messenger of Allah" engraved on it, so none of you should have the same engraving on his ring.'
Hadith - 95
Narrated Anas: That when Abu Bakr became the Caliph, he wrote a letter to him (and stamped it with the Prophet's ring) and the engraving of the ring was in three lines: "Muhammad" in one line, "Apostle" in another line, and "Allah" in a third line.
Hadith - 96
Anas added: The ring of the Prophet (ﷺ) was in his hand, and after him, in Abu Bakr's hand, and then in `Umar's hand after Abu Bakr.
When `Uthman was the Caliph, once he was sitting at the well of Aris. He removed the ring from his hand and while he was trifling with it, dropped into the well. We kept on going to the well with `Uthman for three days looking for the ring, and finally the well was drained, but the ring was not found.
Hadith - 97
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: I offered the `Id prayer with the Prophet (ﷺ) and he offered prayer before the Khutba (sermon).
Ibn `Abbas added: After the prayer, the Prophet (ﷺ) came towards (the rows of) the women and ordered them to give alms, and the women started putting their big and small rings in the garment of Bilal.
Hadith - 98
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: The Prophet (ﷺ) came out on the day of `Id and offered a two-rak`at prayer, and he did not pray any rak`a before it, nor after it. Then he went towards the women and ordered them to give alms. The women started donating their earrings and necklaces.
Hadith - 99
Narrated `Aisha: A necklace belonging to Asma' was lost, and the Prophet (ﷺ) sent men in its search. The time for the prayer became due and they were without ablution and they could not find water; therefore they prayed without ablution.
They mentioned that to the Prophet (ﷺ). Then Allah revealed the Verse of Tayammum.
`Aisha added: That she had borrowed (the necklace) from Asma.
Hadith - 100
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: The Prophet (ﷺ) offered a two-rak`at prayer on `Id day and he did not offer any (Nawafil prayer) before or after it.
He then went towards the women, and Bilal was accompanying him, and ordered them to give alms. And so the women started giving their earrings (etc).
Hadith - 101
Narrated Abu Huraira: I was with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) in one of the Markets of Medina. He left (the market) and so did I.
Then he asked thrice, "Where is the small (child)?" Then he said, "Call Al-Hasan bin `Ali." So Al-Hasan bin `Ali got up and started walking with a necklace (of beads) around his neck.
The Prophet (ﷺ) stretched his hand out like this, and Al-Hasan did the same. The Prophet (ﷺ) embraced him and said, "O Allah! I love him, so please love him and love those who love him."
Since Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said that, nothing has been dearer to me than Al-Hasan.
Hadith - 102
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) cursed those men who are in the similitude (assume the manners) of women and those women who are in the similitude (assume the manners) of men.
Hadith - 103
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: The Prophet (ﷺ) cursed effeminate men (those men who are in the similitude (assume the manners of women)) and those women who assume the manners of men, and he said, "Turn them out of your houses."
The Prophet (ﷺ) turned out such-and-such man, and `Umar turned out such-and-such woman.
Hadith - 104
Narrated Um Salama: That once the Prophet (ﷺ) was in her house, and an effeminate man was there too.
The effeminate man said to `Abdullah, (Um Salama's brother), "O `Abdullah! If Ta'if should be conquered tomorrow, I recommend you the daughter of Ghailan, for she is so fat that she has four curves in the front (of her belly) and eight at the back."
So the Prophet (ﷺ) said (to his wives), "These effeminate (men) should not enter upon you (your houses)."
Hadith - 105
Narrated Ibn `Umar: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "To get the moustaches cut short is characteristic of the Fitra."
Hadith - 106
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Five practices are characteristics of the Fitra: circumcision, shaving the pubic region, clipping the nails and cutting the moustaches short."
Hadith - 107
Narrated Ibn `Umar: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "To shave the pubic hair, to clip the nails and to cut the moustaches short are characteristics of the Fitra."
Hadith - 108
Narrated Abu Huraira: I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "Five practices are characteristics of the Fitra: circumcision, shaving the pubic hair, cutting the moustaches short, clipping the nails, and depilating the hair of the armpits."
Hadith - 109
Narrated Nafi`: Ibn `Umar said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'Do the opposite of what the pagans do. Keep the beards and cut the moustaches short.'"
Whenever Ibn `Umar performed the Hajj or `Umra, he used to hold his beard with his hand and cut whatever remained outside his hold.
Hadith - 110
Narrated Ibn `Umar: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Cut the moustaches short and leave the beard (as it is)."