Hadith - 111
Narrated Muhammad bin Seereen: I asked Anas, "Did the Prophet (ﷺ) dye his hair?" Anas replied, "The Prophet (ﷺ) did not have except a few grey hairs."
Hadith - 112
Narrated Thabit: Anas was asked whether the Prophet (ﷺ) used a hair dye or not. He replied, "The Prophet (ﷺ) did not have enough grey hair to dye, (such that) if I wanted to count the fading hairs in his beard (I could have)."
Hadith - 113
Narrated Isra'il: `Uthman bin `Abdullah bin Mauhab said, "My people sent me with a bowl of water to Um Salama." Isra'il approximated three fingers ('indicating the small size of the container in which there was some hair of the Prophet.)
`Uthman added, "If any person suffered from evil eye or some other disease, he would send a vessel (containing water) to Um Salama. I looked into the container (that held the hair of the Prophet) and saw a few red hairs in it.
Hadith - 114
Narrated `Uthman bin `Abdullah bin Mauhab: I went to Um Salama and she brought out for us some of the dyed hair of the Prophet.
Hadith - 115
Ibn Mauhab also said that Um Salama had shown him the red hair of the Prophet.
Hadith - 116
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Jews and Christians do not dye their hair so you should do the opposite of what they do."
Hadith - 117
Narrated Anas bin Malik: The Prophet (ﷺ) was neither conspicuously tall, nor short; neither, very white, nor tawny. His hair was neither much curled, nor very straight.
Allah sent him (as an Apostle) at the age of forty (and after that) he stayed for ten years in Mecca, and for ten more years in Medina. Allah took him unto Him at the age of sixty, and he scarcely had ten white hairs on his head and in his beard.
Hadith - 118
Narrated Al-Bara': I did not see anybody in a red cloak looking more handsome than the Prophet.
Narrated Malik: The hair of the Prophet (ﷺ) used to hang near his shoulders.
Abu Ishaq said, "I heard him relate it more than once. He always laughed when he related it."
Narrated Shu`ba: The hair of the Prophet (ﷺ) used to hang down to the earlobes.
Hadith - 119
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Today I saw myself in a dream near the Ka`ba. I saw a whitish brown man, the handsomest of all brown men you might ever see. He had the most beautiful Limma (hair hanging down to the earlobes) you might ever see.
He had combed it and it was dripping water; and he was performing the Tawaf around the Ka`ba leaning on two men or on the shoulders of two men. I asked, "Who is this?" It was said, "Messiah, the son of Mary."
Suddenly I saw a curly-haired man, blind in the right eye which looked like a protruding out grape. I asked, "Who is this?" It was said, "He is Masih Ad-Dajjal."
Hadith - 120
Narrated Anas: The hair of the Prophet (ﷺ) used to hang down up to his shoulders.
Hadith - 121
Narrated Anas: The head-hair of the Prophet (ﷺ) used to hang down to his shoulders.
Hadith - 122
Narrated Qatada: I asked Anas bin Malik about the hair of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). He said, "The hair of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was neither much straight, nor much curly, and it used to hang down till between his shoulders and his earlobes."
Hadith - 123
Narrated Anas: The Prophet (ﷺ) had big hands, and I have never seen anybody like him after him. The hair of the Prophet was wavy, neither curly nor straight.
Hadith - 124
Narrated Anas: The Prophet (ﷺ) had big hands and feet, and I have not seen anybody like him, neither before nor after him, and his palms were soft.
Hadith - 125
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) had big feet and a good-looking face and I have not seen anybody like him after him.
Hadith - 126
Narrated Anas: The Prophet (ﷺ) had big feet and hands.
Hadith - 127
Narrated Anas or Jabir bin `Abdullah: The Prophet (ﷺ) had big hands and feet and I have not seen anybody like him after him.
Hadith - 128
Narrated Mujahid: We were with Ibn `Abbas and the people mentioned Ad-Dajjal. Someone said, 'The word "Kafir" (unbeliever) is written in between his (Ad-Dajjal's) eyes.'
Ibn `Abbas said, "I have not heard the Prophet saying this, but he said, 'As regards Abraham, he looks like your companion (i.e. the Prophet Muhammad), and as regards Moses, he is a brown curly haired man riding a camel and reigned with a strong jute rope, as if I am now looking at him getting down in the valley and saying, "Labbaik."'
Hadith - 129
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar: I heard `Umar saying, "Whoever braids his hair should shave it (on finishing Ihram). You'd better not do something like Talbid." Ibn `Umar used to say: "I saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) with his hair stuck together with gum."
Hadith - 130
Narrated Ibn `Umar: I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), while he was in the state of Ihram and his hair was stuck together with gum, saying (what means), "I respond to Your call, O Allah! I respond to Your call. You have no partner. I respond to Your call.
All praise, thanks and blessings are for You. All sovereignty is for You. And You have no partners with You." He did not add anything to those words.
Hadith - 131
Narrated Hafsa (the wife of the Prophet): I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Why have the people finished their Ihram after performing the `Umra while you have not finished your Ihram after your `Umra?"
He said, "I have done Talbid (of my hair) and have decorated my Hadis with garlands, so I shall not finish my Ihram till I have slaughtered my Hadi (animal for sacrifice)."
Hadith - 132
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: The Prophet (ﷺ) used to copy the people of the Scriptures in matters in which there was no order from Allah.
The people of the Scripture used to let their hair hang down while the pagans used to part their hair. So the Prophet (ﷺ) let his hair hang down first, but later on he parted it.
Hadith - 133
Narrated `Aisha: As if I am now looking at the shine of the hair-parting of the Prophet (ﷺ) while he was in the state of Ihram.
Hadith - 134
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: Once I stayed overnight in the house of my aunt Maimuna bint Al-Harith and Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was with her as it was her turn. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) got up to offer the night prayer.
I stood on his left but he took hold of my two locks of hair and made me stand on his right.
Narrated Abu Bishr: (the above Hadith) but he quoted: Ibn `Abbas said, "(took hold of) my two braids on my head."
Hadith - 135
Narrated Ubaidullah bin Hafs: That `Umar bin Nafi` told him that Nafi`, Maula `Abdullah, had heard `Umar saying, "I heard Allah's Apostle forbidding Al-Qaza'."
'Ubaidullah added: I said, "What is Al-Qaza'?" 'Ubaidullah pointed (towards his head) to show us and added, "Nafi` said, 'It is when a boy has his head shaved leaving a tuft of hair here and a tuft of hair there." Ubaidullah pointed towards his forehead and the sides of his head.
'Ubaidullah was asked, "Does this apply to both girls and boys?" He said, "I don't know, but Nafi` said, 'The boy.'"
'Ubaidullah added, "I asked Nafi` again, and he said, 'As for leaving hair on the temples and the back part of the boy's head, there is no harm, but Al-Qaza' is to leave a tuft of hair on his forehead unshaved while there is no hair on the rest of his head, and also to leave hair on either side of his head.'"
Hadith - 136
Narrated (Abdullah) bin `Umar: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade Al-Qaza' (leaving a tuft of hair here and there after shaving one's head).
Hadith - 137
Narrated `Aisha: I applied perfume to the Prophet (ﷺ) with my own hands when he wanted to assume the state of Ihram, and I also perfumed him at Mina before he departed from there (to perform Tawaf-al-Ifada).
Hadith - 138
Narrated `Aisha: I used to perfume Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) with the best scent available till I saw the shine of the scent on his head and beard.
Hadith - 139
Narrated Sa`d: A man peeped into the house of the Prophet (ﷺ) through a hole while the Prophet (ﷺ) was scratching his head with a Midrai (a certain kind of comb).
On that, the Prophet (ﷺ) said (to him), "If I had known you had been looking, then I would have pierced your eye with that instrument, because the asking of permission has been ordained so that one would not see things unlawfully."
Hadith - 140
Narrated `Aisha: I used to comb the hair of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) during my periods. This hadith also reaches us through another chain.
Hadith - 141
Narrated `Aisha: The Prophet (ﷺ) used to like to start from the right side as far as possible in combing and in performing ablution.
Hadith - 142
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "(Allah said), 'Every good deed of Adam's son is for him except fasting; it is for Me. and I shall reward (the fasting person) for it.' Verily, the smell of the mouth of a fasting person is better to Allah than the smell of musk.
Hadith - 143
Narrated `Aisha: I used to perfume the Prophet (ﷺ) before his assuming the state of Ihram with the best scent available.
Hadith - 144
Narrated Thumama bin `Abdullah;: Anas never used to refuse (a gift of) scent and used to say that the Prophet (ﷺ) never used to refuse (a gift of) scent.
Hadith - 145
Narrated `Aisha: During Hajjat-al-Wada`, I perfumed Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) with Dharira with my own hands, both on his assuming Ihram and on finishing it.
Hadith - 146
Narrated `Abdullah: Allah has cursed those women who practise tattooing and those who get themselves tattooed, and those who remove their face hairs, and those who create a space between their teeth artificially to look beautiful, and such women as change the features created by Allah.
Why then should I not curse those whom the Prophet (ﷺ) has cursed? And that is in Allah's Book, i.e. His Saying: 'And what the Apostle gives you take it and what he forbids you abstain (from it).' (Surah 59: Ayah 7)
Hadith - 147
Narrated Humaid bin `Abdur-Rahman bin `Auf: That in the year he performed Hajj, he heard Mu'awiya bin Abi Sufyan, who was on the pulpit and was taking a tuft of hair from one of his guards, saying, "Where are your religious learned men?
I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbidding this (false hair) and saying, 'The children of Israel were destroyed when their women started using this.'"
Hadith - 148
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Allah has cursed the lady who artificially lengthens (her or someone else's) hair and the one who gets her hair lengthened and the one who tattoos (herself or someone else) and the one who gets herself tattooed."
Hadith - 149
Narrated `Aisha: An Ansari girl was married and she became sick and all her hair fell out.Intending to provide her with false hair, they asked the Prophet (ﷺ) who said, "Allah has cursed the lady who artificially lengthens (her or someone else's) hair and also the one who gets her hair lengthened."
Hadith - 150
Narrated Asma (the daughter of Abu' Bakr): A woman came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and said, "I married my daughter to someone, but she became sick and all her hair fell out, and (because of that) her husband does not like her. May I let her use false hair?"
On that, the Prophet (ﷺ) cursed such a lady as artificially lengthening (her or someone else's) hair or got her hair lengthened artificially.
Hadith - 151
Narrated Asma' (the daughter of Abu Bakr): Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) has cursed such a lady as artificially lengthening (her or someone else's) hair or gets her hair lengthened.
Hadith - 152
Narrated Ibn `Umar: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Allah has cursed such a lady as lengthens (her or someone else's) hair artificially or gets it lengthened, and also a lady who tattoos (herself or someone else) or gets herself tattooed."
Hadith - 153
Narrated Sa`id bin Al-Musaiyab: Mu'awiya came to Medina for the last time and delivered a sermon. He took out a tuft of hair and said, "I thought that none used to do this (i.e. use false hair) except Jews. The Prophet (ﷺ) labelled such practice, (i.e. the use of false hair), as cheating."
Hadith - 154
Narrated 'Alqama: `Abdullah cursed those women who practiced tattooing and those who removed hair from their faces and those who created spaces between their teeth artificially to look beautiful, such ladies as changed what Allah has created.
Um Ya'qub said, "What is that?" `Abdullah said, "Why should I not curse those who were cursed by Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and are referred to in Allah's Book?"
She said to him "By Allah, I have read the whole Qur'an but I have not found such a thing." `Abdullah said, "By Allah, if you had read it (carefully) you would have found it. (Allah says:) 'And what the Apostle gives you take it and what he forbids you abstain (from it).'" (Surah 59: Ayah 7)
Hadith - 155
Narrated Ibn `Umar: The Prophet (ﷺ) has cursed the lady who lengthens her hair artificially and the one who gets her hair lengthened, and also the lady who tattoos (herself or others) and the one who gets herself tattooed.
Hadith - 156
Narrated Asma': A woman asked the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! My daughter got measles and her hair fell out. Now that I got her married, may I let her use false hair?"
He said (to her), "Allah has cursed the lady who lengthens hair artificially and the one who gets her hair lengthened artificially."
Hadith - 157
Narrated Ibn `Umar: I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, (or the Prophet (ﷺ) said), "Allah has cursed the lady who practices tattooing and that who gets it done for herself, and also the lady who lengthens hair artificially and that who gets her hair lengthened artificially." The Prophet (ﷺ) has cursed such ladies.
Hadith - 158
Narrated Ibn Mas`ud: Allah has cursed those women who practise tattooing or get it done for themselves, and those who remove hair from their faces, and those who create spaces between their teeth artificially to look beautiful, such ladies as change the features created by Allah.
Why then shall I not curse those whom Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) has cursed and who are cursed in Allah's Book too?
Hadith - 159
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The evil eye is a fact," and he forbade tattooing.
Hadith - 160
Narrated `Abdullah: (As above).
Hadith - 161
Narrated Abu Juhaifa: The Prophet (ﷺ) forbade the use of the price of blood and the price of a dog, the one who takes (eats) usury the one who gives usury, the woman who practises tattooing and the woman who gets herself tattooed.
Hadith - 162
Narrated Abu Huraira: A woman who used to practise tattooing was brought to `Umar. `Umar got up and said, "I beseech you by Allah, which of you heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying something about tattooing?"
I got up and said, "O chief of the Believers! I heard something." He said, "What did you hear?" I said, "I heard the Prophet (addressing the ladies), saying, 'Do not practise tattooing and do not get yourselves tattooed.'"
Hadith - 163
Narrated Ibn `Umar: The Prophet (ﷺ) has cursed the lady who lengthens hair artificially and that who gets her hair lengthened in such away, and the lady who practises tattooing and that who gets it done for herself.
Hadith - 164
Narrated `Abdullah: Allah has cursed those women who practise tattooing and those who get it done for themselves, and those who remove hair from their faces, and those who artificially create spaces between their teeth to look beautiful, such women as alter the features created by Allah.
Why should I not then curse those whom Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) has cursed and that is in Allah's Book?
Hadith - 165
Narrated Abu Talha: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Angels do not enter a house in which there is a dog or there are pictures."
Hadith - 166
Narrated Muslim: We were with Masruq at the house of Yasar bin Numair. Masruq saw pictures on his terrace and said, 'I heard `Abdullah saying that he heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "The people who will receive the severest punishment from Allah will be the picture makers."'
Hadith - 167
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, 'Those who make these pictures will be punished on the Day of Resurrection, and it will be said to them, "Make alive what you have created."'
Hadith - 168
Narrated `Aisha: I never used to leave in the Prophet (ﷺ) house anything carrying images or crosses but he obliterated it.
Hadith - 169
Narrated Abu Zur'a: I entered a house in Medina with Abu Huraira, and he saw a man making pictures at the top of the house.
Abu Huraira said, "I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying that Allah said, 'Who would be more unjust than the one who tries to create the like of My creatures? Let them create a grain: let them create a gnat.'"
Abu Huraira then asked for a water container and washed his arms up to his armpits. I said, "O Abu Huraira! Is this something you have heard from Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)?" He said, "The limit for ablution is up to the place where the ornaments will reach on the Day of Resurrection."
Hadith - 170
Narrated `Aisha: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) returned from a journey when I had placed a curtain of mine having pictures over (the door of) a chamber of mine.
When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saw it, he tore it and said, "The people who will receive the severest punishment on the Day of Resurrection will be those who try to make the like of Allah's creations." So we turned it (i.e., the curtain) into one or two cushions.
Hadith - 171
Narrated Aisha: The Prophet (ﷺ) returned from a journey when I had hung a thick curtain having pictures (in front of a door). He ordered me to remove it and I removed it.
Hadith - 172
Aisha added: The Prophet (ﷺ) and I used to take a bath from one container (of water).
Hadith - 173
Narrated `Aisha: I purchased a cushion with pictures on it. The Prophet (came and) stood at the door but did not enter.
I said (to him), "I repent to Allah for what (the guilt) I have done." He said, "What is this cushion?" I said, "It is for you to sit on and recline on."
He said, "The makers of these pictures will be punished on the Day of Resurrection and it will be said to them, 'Make alive what you have created.' Moreover, the angels do not enter a house where there are pictures."
Hadith - 174
Narrated Abu Talha: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Angels (of mercy) do not enter a house where there are pictures.'"
The subnarrator Busr added: "Then Zaid fell ill and we paid him a visit. Behold! There was, hanging at his door, a curtain decorated with a picture.
I said to 'Ubaidullah Al-Khaulani, the step son of Maimuna, the wife of the Prophet (ﷺ), "Didn't Zaid tell us about the picture the day before yesterday?" 'Ubaidullah said, "Didn't you hear him saying: 'except a design in a garment'?"
Hadith - 175
Narrated Anas: Aisha had a thick curtain (having pictures on it) and she screened the side of her house with it. The Prophet (ﷺ) said to her, "Remove it from my sight, for its pictures are still coming to my mind in my prayers."
Hadith - 176
Narrated Salim's father: Once Gabriel promised to visit the Prophet (ﷺ) but he delayed and the Prophet (ﷺ) got worried about that. At last he came out and found Gabriel and complained to him of his grief (for his delay).
Gabriel said to him, "We do not enter a place in which there is a picture or a dog."
Hadith - 177
Narrated `Aisha (the wife of the Prophet): I bought a cushion having pictures on it. When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saw it, he stopped at the gate and did not enter. I noticed the signs of hatred (for that) on his face.
I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! I turn to Allah and His Apostle in repentance! What sin have I committed?" He said, "What about this cushion?" I said, 'I bought it for you to sit on and recline on."
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The makers of these pictures will be punished (severely) on the Day of Resurrection and it will be said to them, 'Make alive what you have created.'" He added, "Angels do not enter a house in which there are pictures."
Hadith - 178
Narrated Abu Juhaifa: That he had bought a slave whose profession was cupping.
The Prophet (ﷺ) forbade taking the price of blood and the price of a dog and the earnings of a prostitute, and cursed the one who took or gave (Riba') usury, and the lady who tattooed others or got herself tattooed, and the picture-maker.
Hadith - 179
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: I heard Muhammad saying, "Whoever makes a picture in this world will be asked to put life into it on the Day of Resurrection, but he will not be able to do so."
Hadith - 180
Narrated Usama bin Zaid: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) rode a donkey saddled with a saddle covered with a Fadakiyya velvet sheet, and he made me ride behind him.
Hadith - 181
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: When the Prophet (ﷺ) arrived at Mecca, the children of Bani `Abdul Muttalib received him. He then mounted one of them in front of him and the other behind him.
Hadith - 182
Narrated Aiyub: The worst of three (persons riding one, animal) was mentioned in `Ikrima's presence.
`Ikrima said, "Ibn `Abbas said, '(In the year of the conquest of Mecca) the Prophet (ﷺ) came and mounted Qutham in front of him and Al-Fadl behind him, or Qutham behind him and Al-Fadl in front of him.' Now which of them was the worst off and which was the best?"
Hadith - 183
Narrated Mu`adh bin Jabal: While I was riding behind the Prophet (ﷺ) and between me and him there was only the back of the saddle, he said, "O Mu`adh!" I replied, "Labbaik, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), and Sa`daik!"
He said, "Do you know what is Allah's right upon his slave?" I said, "Allah and His Apostle know best." He said, "Allah's right upon his slaves is that they should worship Him alone and not worship anything else besides Him."
Then he proceeded for a while and then said, "O Mu`adh bin Jabal!" I replied, "Labbaik, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), Sa`daik!" He said, "Do you know what is the right of the slaves upon Allah if they do that?" I replied, "Allah and His Apostle know best."
He said, "The right of the slaves upon Allah is that He will not punish them (if they do that)."
Hadith - 184
Narrated Anas bin Malik: We were coming from Khaibar along with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) while I was riding behind Abu Talha and he was proceeding.
While one of the wives of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was riding behind Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), suddenly the foot of the camel slipped and I said, "The woman!" and alighted (hurriedly). Allah's Apostle said, "She is your mother."
So I resaddled the she-camel and Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) mounted it. When he approached or saw Medina, he said (what means), "We are coming back with repentance, worshiping (our Lord) and celebrating His (our Lord's) praises."
Hadith - 185
Narrated `Abbad bin Tamim's uncle: I saw the Prophet (ﷺ) lying-down in the mosque and placing one leg on the other.