Hadith - 1
Narrated Al-Walid bin 'Aizar: I heard Abi `Amr 'Ash-Shaibani saying, "The owner of this house," he pointed to `Abdullah's house, "said, 'I asked the Prophet (ﷺ), "Which deed is loved most by Allah?" He replied, "To offer prayers at their early (very first) stated times."
`Abdullah asked, "What is the next (in goodness)?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "To be good and dutiful to one's parents."
`Abdullah asked, "What is the next (in goodness)?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "To participate in Jihad for Allah's Cause."
`Abdullah added, "The Prophet (ﷺ) narrated to me these three things, and if I had asked more, he would have told me more."'
Hadith - 2
Narrated Abu Huraira: A man came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Who is more entitled to be treated with the best companionship by me?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Your mother."
The man said, "Who is next?" The Prophet said, "Your mother." The man further said, "Who is next?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Your mother." The man asked for the fourth time, "Who is next?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Your father."
Hadith - 3
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Amr: A man said to the Prophet, "Shall I participate in Jihad?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Are your parents living?" The man said, "Yes." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Do Jihad for their benefit."
Hadith - 4
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Amr: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "It is one of the greatest sins that a man should curse his parents."
It was asked (by the people), "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! How does a man curse his parents?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The man abuses the father of another man and the latter abuses the father of the former and abuses his mother."
Hadith - 5
Narrated Ibn `Umar: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "While three persons were traveling, they were overtaken by rain and they took shelter in a cave in a mountain. A big rock fell from the mountain over the mouth of the cave and blocked it.
They said to each other, 'Think of such good (righteous) deeds which, you did for Allah's sake only, and invoke Allah by giving reference to those deeds so that Allah may relieve you from your difficulty.
One of them said, 'O Allah! I had my parents who were very old and I had small children for whose sake I used to work as a shepherd. When I returned to them at night and milked (the sheep), I used to start giving the milk to my parents first before giving to my children.
And one day I went far away in search of a grazing place (for my sheep), and didn't return home till late at night and found that my parents had slept.
I milked (my livestock) as usual and brought the milk vessel and stood at their heads, and I disliked to wake them up from their sleep, and I also disliked to give the milk to my children before my parents though my children were crying (from hunger) at my feet. So this state of mine and theirs continued till the day dawned.
(O Allah!) If You considered that I had done that only for seeking Your pleasure, then please let there be an opening through which we can see the sky.' So Allah made for them an opening through which they could see the sky.
Then the second person said, 'O Allah! I had a she-cousin whom I loved as much as a passionate man loves a woman. I tried to seduce her but she refused till I paid her one-hundred Dinars.
So I worked hard till I collected one hundred Dinars and went to her with that. But when I sat in between her legs (to have sexual intercourse with her), she said, 'O Allah's slave! Be afraid of Allah! Do not deflower me except legally (by marriage contract).' So I left her.
O Allah! If you considered that I had done that only for seeking Your pleasure then please let the rock move a little to have a (wider) opening.' So Allah shifted that rock to make the opening wider for them.
And the last (third) person said, 'O Allah! I employed a laborer for wages equal to a Faraq (a certain measure) of rice, and when he had finished his job he demanded his wages, but when I presented his due to him, he gave it up and refused to take it.
Then I kept on sowing that rice for him (several times) till I managed to buy with the price of the yield some cows and their shepherd.
Later on, the laborer came to me and said, '(O Allah's slave!) Be afraid of Allah, and do not be unjust to me and give me my due.' I said (to him), 'Go and take those cows and their shepherd.' So he took them and went away.
(So, O Allah!) If You considered that I had done that for seeking Your pleasure, then please remove the remaining part of the rock.' And so Allah released them (from their difficulty).
Hadith - 6
Narrated Al-Mughira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Allah has forbidden you (1) to be undutiful to your mothers (2) to withhold (what you should give) or (3) demand (what you do not deserve), and (4) to bury your daughters alive.
And Allah has disliked that (A) you talk too much about others (B), ask too many questions (in religion), or (C) waste your property."
Hadith - 7
Narrated Abu Bakra: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said thrice, "Shall I not inform you of the biggest of the great sins?" We said, "Yes, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)." He said, "To join partners in worship with Allah, to be undutiful to one's parents."
The Prophet (ﷺ) sat up after he had been reclining and added, "And I warn you against giving forged statement and a false witness; I warn you against giving a forged statement and a false witness..."
The Prophet kept on saying that warning till we thought that he would not stop.
Hadith - 8
Narrated Anas bin Malik: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) mentioned the greatest sins or he was asked about the greatest sins. He said, "To join partners in worship with Allah; to kill a soul which Allah has forbidden to kill; and to be undutiful or unkind to one's parents."
The Prophet (ﷺ) added, "Shall I inform you of the biggest of the great sins? That is the forged statement or the false witness."
Shu`ba (the sub-narrator) states that most probably the Prophet said, "the false witness."
Hadith - 9
Narrated Asma' bint Abu Bakr: My mother came to me, hoping (for my favor) during the lifetime of the Prophet. I asked the Prophet, "May I treat her kindly?" He replied, "Yes."
Ibn 'Uyaina said, 'Then Allah revealed: "Allah forbids you not with regards to those who fought not against you because of religion, and drove you not out from your homes, that you should show them kindness and deal justly with them."' (Surah 60: Ayah 8)
Hadith - 10
Narrated Asma': "My mother who was a Mushrikah (pagan, etc), came with her father during the period of peace pact between the Muslims and the Quraish infidels.
I went to seek the advice of the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "My mother has arrived and she is hoping (for my favor)." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Yes, be good to your mother."
Hadith - 11
Narrated Abu Sufyan: That Heraclius sent for him and said, "What did he, i.e. the Prophet (ﷺ) order you?" I replied, "He orders us to offer prayers; to give alms; to be chaste; and to keep good relations with our relatives."
Hadith - 12
Narrated Ibn `Umar: My father, seeing a silken cloak being sold, said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Buy this and wear it on Fridays and when the foreign delegates pay a visit to you." He said, "This is worn only by that person who will have no share in the Hereafter."
Later, a few silken cloaks were given to the Prophet (ﷺ) as a gift, and he sent one of those cloaks to `Umar. `Umar said (to the Prophet), "How can I wear it while you have said about it what you said?"
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I did not give it to you to wear but to sell or to give to someone else to wear." So `Umar sent it to his (pagan) brother who was from the inhabitants of Mecca before he (`Umar's brother) embraced Islam.
Hadith - 13
Narrated Abu Ayyub Al-Ansari: It was said, "O Allah's Messenger! Inform me of a deed which will make me enter Paradise." (continues through a different chain in the next hadith).
Hadith - 14
Narrated Abu Aiyub Al-Ansari: A man said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Inform me of a deed which will make me enter Paradise." The people said, "What is the matter with him? What is the matter with him?" Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "He has something to ask (what he needs greatly)."
The Prophet (ﷺ) said (to him), "(In order to enter Paradise) you should worship Allah and join none in worship with Him. You should offer prayers perfectly, give obligatory charity (Zakat), and keep good relations with your Kith and kin."
He then said, "Leave it!" (The sub-narrator said, "It seems that the Prophet (ﷺ) was riding his she camel.)
Hadith - 15
Narrated Jubair bin Mut`im: That he heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "The person who severs the bond of kinship will not enter Paradise."
Hadith - 16
Narrated Abu Huraira: I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "Whoever is pleased that he be granted more wealth and that his lease of life be prolonged, then he should keep good relations with his Kith and kin."
Hadith - 17
Narrated Anas bin Malik: Allah's Apostle said, "Whoever loves that he be granted more wealth and that his lease of life be prolonged, then he should keep good relations with his Kith and kin."
Hadith - 18
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Allah created the creations, and when He finished from His creations, Ar-Rahm i.e., womb said, '(O Allah) at this place I seek refuge with You from all those who sever me (i.e. sever the ties of Kith and kin).'
Allah said, 'Yes, won't you be pleased that I will keep good relations with the one who will keep good relations with you, and I will sever the relation with the one who will sever the relations with you.'
It said, 'Yes, O my Lord.' Allah said, 'Then that is for you.'"
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) added, "Read (in the Qur'an) if you wish, the Statement of Allah: 'Would you then, if you were given the authority, do mischief in the land and sever your ties of kinship?'" (Surah 47: Ayah 22)
Hadith - 19
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The word Ar-Rahm (womb) derives its name from Ar-Rahman (i.e., one of the names of Allah) and Allah said: 'I will keep good relation with the one who will keep good relation with you, (womb i.e. Kith and Kin) and sever the relation with him who will sever the relation with you, (womb, i.e. Kith and Kin).'"
Hadith - 20
Narrated `Aisha (the wife of the Prophet): The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The word Ar-Rahm (womb) derives its name from Ar-Rahman (i.e. Allah).
So whosoever keeps good relations with it (womb i.e. Kith and kin), Allah will keep good relations with him, and whosoever will sever it (i.e. severs his bonds of Kith and kin) Allah too will sever His relations with him.
Hadith - 21
Narrated `Amr bin Al-`As: I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying openly not secretly, "The family of Abu so-and-so (i.e. Talib) are not among my protectors." `Amr said that there was a blank space in the Book of Muhammad bin Ja`far. He added, "My Protector is Allah and the righteous believing people."
`Amr bin Al-`As added: I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, 'But they (that family) have kinship (Rahm) with me and I will be good and dutiful to them.'
Hadith - 22
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Amr: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Al-Wasil is not the one who recompenses the good done to him by his relatives, but Al-Wasil is the one who keeps good relations with those relatives who had severed the bond of kinship with him."
Hadith - 23
Narrated Hakim bin Hizam: That he said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! What do you think about my good deeds which I used to do during the period of ignorance (before embracing Islam) like keeping good relations with my Kith and kin, manumitting of slaves and giving alms etc. Shall I receive the reward for that?"
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "You have embraced Islam with all those good deeds which you did."
Hadith - 24
Narrated Sa`id: Um Khalid bint Khalid bin Sa`id said, "I came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) along with my father and I was wearing a yellow shirt." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Sanah Sanah!"
(`Abdullah, the sub-narrator said, "It means, 'Nice, nice!' in the Ethiopian language.")
Um Khalid added, 'Then I started playing with the seal of Prophethood. My father admonished me. But Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said (to my father), "Leave her."
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (then addressing me) said, "May you live so long that your dress gets worn out, and you will mend it many times, and then wear another till it gets worn out (i.e. May Allah prolong your life)."
(The sub-narrator, `Abdullah said, "That garment (which she was wearing) remained usable for a long period").
Hadith - 25
Narrated Ibn Abi Nu'am: I was present when a man asked Ibn `Umar about the blood of mosquitoes. Ibn `Umar said, "From where are you?" The man replied, "From Iraq."
Ibn `Umar said, 'Look at that! He is asking me about the blood of Mosquitoes while they (the Iraqis) have killed the (grand) son of the Prophet. I have heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "They (Hasan and Husain) are my two sweet-smelling flowers in this world."'
Hadith - 26
Narrated `Aisha (the wife of the Prophet): A lady along with her two daughters came to me asking me (for some alms), but she found nothing with me except one date which I gave to her and she divided it between her two daughters, and then she got up and went away.
Then the Prophet (ﷺ) came in and I informed him about this story. He said, "Whoever is in charge of (put to test by) these daughters and treats them generously, then they will act as a shield for him from the (Hell) Fire."
Hadith - 27
Narrated Abu Qatada: The Prophet (ﷺ) came out towards us, while carrying Umamah, the daughter of Abi Al-As (his granddaughter) over his shoulder. He prayed, and when he wanted to bow, he put her down, and when he stood up, he lifted her up.
Hadith - 28
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) kissed Al-Hasan bin `Ali while Al-Aqra' bin Habis at-Tamimi was sitting beside him. Al-Aqra said, "I have ten children and I have never kissed anyone of them."
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) cast a look at him and said, "Whoever is not merciful to others will not be treated mercifully."
Hadith - 29
Narrated `Aisha: A bedouin came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said, "You (people) kiss the boys! We don't kiss them." The Prophet said, "I cannot put mercy in your heart after Allah has taken it away from it."
Hadith - 30
Narrated `Umar bin Al-Khattab: Some Sabi (i.e. war prisoners, children and woman only) were brought before the Prophet (ﷺ) and behold, a woman amongst them was milking her breasts to feed and whenever she found a child amongst the captives, she took it over her chest and nursed it (she had lost her child but later she found him).
The Prophet said to us, "Do you think that this lady can throw her son in the fire?" We replied, "No, if she has the power not to throw it (in the fire)." The Prophet (ﷺ) then said, "Allah is more merciful to His slaves than this lady to her son."
Hadith - 31
Narrated Abu Huraira: I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "Allah divided Mercy into one hundred parts.
He kept ninety nine parts with Him and sent down one part to the earth, and because of that, its one single part, His Creations are merciful to each other, so that even the mare lifts up its hoofs away from its baby animal, lest it should trample on it."
Hadith - 32
Narrated `Abdullah: I said 'O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Which sin is the greatest?" He said, "To set up a rival unto Allah, though He Alone created you."
I said, "What next?" He said, "To kill your son lest he should share your food with you."
I further asked, "What next?" He said, "To commit illegal sexual intercourse with the wife of your neighbor."
And then Allah revealed as proof of the statement of the Prophet: 'Those who invoke not with Allah any other god... (to end of verse, Surah 25: Ayah 68).
Hadith - 33
Narrated `Aisha: The Prophet (ﷺ) took a child in his lap for Tahnik (i.e. he chewed a date in his mouth and put its juice in the mouth of the child). The child urinated on him, so he asked for water and poured it over the place of the urine.
Hadith - 34
Narrated Usama bin Zaid: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to put me on (one of) his thighs and put Al-Hasan bin `Ali on his other thigh, and then embrace us and say, "O Allah! Please be Merciful to them, as I am merciful to them."
Hadith - 35
Narrated `Aisha: I never felt so jealous of any woman as I did of Khadija, though she had died three years before the Prophet married me, and that was because I heard him mentioning her too often, and because his Lord had ordered him to give her the glad tidings that she would have a palace in Paradise, made of Qasab, and because he used to slaughter a sheep and distribute its meat among her friends.
Hadith - 36
Narrated Sahl bin Sa`d: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I and the person who looks after an orphan and provides for him will be in Paradise like this," putting his index and middle fingers together.
Hadith - 37
Narrated Safwan bin Salim: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The one who looks after and works for a widow and for a poor person, is like a warrior fighting for Allah's Cause or like a person who fasts during the day and prays all the night."
Narrated Abu Huraira that the Prophet (ﷺ) said as above.
Hadith - 38
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The one who looks after and works for a widow and for a poor person is like a warrior fighting for Allah's Cause."
(The narrator Al-Qa'nabi is not sure whether he also said, "Like the one who prays all the night without slackness and fasts continuously and never breaks his fast").
Hadith - 39
Narrated Abu Sulaiman and Malik bin Huwairith: We came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and we were (a few) young men of approximately equal age and stayed with him for twenty nights.
Then he thought that we were anxious for our families, and he asked us whom we had left behind to look after our families, and we told him.
He was kindhearted and merciful, so he said, "Return to your families and teach them (religious knowledge) and order them (to do good deeds) and offer your prayers in the way you saw me offering my prayers, and when the stated time for the prayer becomes due, then one of you should pronounce its call (i.e. the Adhan), and the eldest of you should lead you in prayer."
Hadith - 40
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "While a man was walking on a road, he became very thirsty. Then he came across a well, got down into it, drank (of its water) and then came out.
Meanwhile he saw a dog panting and licking mud because of excessive thirst. The man said to himself, "This dog is suffering from the same state of thirst as I did."
So he went down the well (again) and filled his shoe (with water) and held it in his mouth and watered the dog. Allah thanked him for that deed and forgave him."
The people asked, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Is there a reward for us in serving the animals?" He said, "(Yes) There is a reward for serving any animate (living being)."
Hadith - 41
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) stood up for the prayer and we too stood up along with him. Then a bedouin shouted while offering prayer, "O Allah! Bestow Your Mercy on me and Muhammad only, and do not bestow it on anybody else along with us."
When the Prophet (ﷺ) had finished his prayer with Taslim, he said to the Bedouin, "You have limited (narrowed) a very vast (thing)," meaning Allah's Mercy.
Hadith - 42
Narrated An-Nu`man bin Bashir: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "You see the believers as regards their being merciful among themselves and showing love among themselves and being kind, resembling one body, so that if any part of the body is not well then the whole body shares the sleeplessness (insomnia) and fever with it."
Hadith - 43
Narrated Anas bin Malik: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If any Muslim plants any plant and a human being or an animal eats of it, he will be rewarded as if he had given that much in charity."
Hadith - 44
Narrated Jarir bin `Abdullah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "He who is not merciful to others, will not be treated mercifully."
Hadith - 45
Narrated `Aisha: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Gabriel continued to recommend me about treating the neighbors kindly and politely so-much-so that I thought he would order me to make them as my heirs."
Hadith - 46
Narrates Ibn `Umar: Allah's Apostle said, "Gabriel kept on recommending me about treating the neighbors in a kind and polite manner, so-much-so that I thought that he would order (me) to make them (my) heirs."
Hadith - 47
Narrated Abu Shuraih: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "By Allah, he does not believe! By Allah, he does not believe! By Allah, he does not believe!" It was said, "Who is that, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)?" He said, "That person whose neighbor does not feel safe from his evil."
Hadith - 48
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) used to say, "O Muslim ladies! A neighbouress should not look down upon the present of her neighbouress, even it were the hooves of a sheep.
Hadith - 49
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Anybody who believes in Allah and the Last Day should not harm his neighbor, and anybody who believes in Allah and the Last Day should entertain his guest generously and anybody who believes in Allah and the Last Day should talk what is good or keep quiet (i.e. abstain from all kinds of evil and dirty talk)."
Hadith - 50
Narrated Abu Shuraih Al-Adawi: My ears heard and my eyes saw the Prophet (ﷺ) when he spoke, "Anybody who believes in Allah and the Last Day should serve his neighbor generously, and anybody who believes in Allah and the Last Day should serve his guest generously by giving him his reward."
It was asked, "What is his reward, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)?" He said, "(To be entertained generously) for a day and a night with high quality of food and the guest has the right to be entertained for three days (with ordinary food) and if he stays longer, what he will be provided with will be regarded as Sadaqa (a charitable gift).
And anybody who believes in Allah and the Last Day should talk what is good or keep quiet (i.e. abstain from all kinds of dirty and evil talks)."
Hadith - 51
Narrated `Aisha: I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! I have two neighbors! To whom shall I send my gifts?" He said, "To the one whose gate in nearer to you."
Hadith - 52
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Enjoining all that is good is a Sadaqa."
Hadith - 53
Narrated Abu Musa Al-Ash`ari: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "On every Muslim there is enjoined (a compulsory) Sadaqa (alms)."
They (the people) said, "If one has nothing?" He said, "He should work with his hands so that he may benefit himself and give in charity."
They said, "If he cannot work or does not work?" He said, "Then he should help the oppressed unhappy person (by word or action or both)."
They said, "If he does not do it?" He said, "Then he should enjoin what is good (or said what is reasonable)."
They said, "If he does not do that?" He said, "Then he should refrain from doing evil, for that will be considered for Him as a Sadaqa (charity)."
Hadith - 54
Narrated `Adi bin Hatim: The Prophet (ﷺ) mentioned the (Hell) Fire and sought refuge (with Allah) from it, and turned his face to the other side. He mentioned the (Hell) Fire again and took refuge (with Allah) from it and turned his face to the other side.
(Shu`ba, the sub-narrator, said, "I have no doubt that the Prophet (ﷺ) repeated it twice.")
The Prophet (ﷺ) then said, "(O people!) Save yourselves from the (Hell) Fire even if with one half of a date fruit (given in charity), and if this is not available, then (save yourselves) by saying a good pleasant friendly word."
Hadith - 55
Narrated `Aisha (the wife of the Prophet): A group of Jews entered upon the Prophet (ﷺ) and said, "As-Samu-Alaikum" (i.e. death be upon you). I understood it and said, "Wa-Alaikum As-Samu wal la'n (death and the curse of Allah be upon you)."
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Be calm, O `Aisha! Allah loves that one should be kind and lenient in all matters."
I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Haven't you heard what they (the Jews) have said?" Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, 'I have (already) said (to them), "And upon you."'
Hadith - 56
Narrated Anas bin Malik: A bedouin urinated in the mosque and the people ran to (beat) him. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Do not interrupt his urination (i.e. let him finish)." Then the Prophet (ﷺ) asked for a tumbler of water and poured the water over the place of urine.
Hadith - 57
Narrated Abu Musa: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "A believer to another believer is like a building whose different parts enforce each other." The Prophet (ﷺ) then clasped his hands with the fingers interlaced.
(At that time) the Prophet (ﷺ) was sitting and a man came and begged or asked for something. The Prophet (ﷺ) faced us and said, "Help and recommend him and you will receive the reward for it, and Allah will bring about what He wills through His Prophet's tongue."
Hadith - 58
Narrated Abu Musa: Whenever a beggar or a person in need came to the Prophet, the Prophet would say, "Help and recommend him and you will receive the reward for it, and Allah will bring about what He wills through His Prophet's tongue."
Hadith - 59
Narrated Masruq: Abdullah bin 'Amr mentioned Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), saying that he was neither a Fahish nor a Mutafahish. Abdullah bin 'Amr added, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, 'The best among you are those who have the best manners and character.'"
Hadith - 60
Narrated `Abdullah bin Mulaika: `Aisha said that the Jews came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said, "As-Samu 'Alaikum" (death be on you). `Aisha said (to them), "(Death) be on you, and may Allah curse you and shower His wrath upon you!"
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Be calm, O `Aisha! You should be kind and lenient, and beware of harshness and Fuhsh (i.e. bad words)."
She said (to the Prophet), "Haven't you heard what they (Jews) have said?" He said, "Haven't you heard what I have said (to them)? I said the same to them, and my invocation against them will be accepted while theirs against me will be rejected (by Allah)."
Hadith - 61
Narrated Anas bin Malik: The Prophet (ﷺ) was not one who would abuse (others) or say obscene words, or curse (others), and if he wanted to admonish anyone of us, he used to say: "What is wrong with him, his forehead be dusted."
Hadith - 62
Narrated 'Aisha: A man asked permission to enter upon the Prophet. When the Prophet (ﷺ) saw him, he said, "What an evil brother of his tribe! And what an evil son of his tribe!"
When that man sat down, the Prophet (ﷺ) behaved with him in a nice and polite manner and was completely at ease with him.
When that person had left, 'Aisha said (to the Prophet), "O Allah's Apostle! When you saw that man, you said so-and-so about him, then you showed him a kind and polite behavior, and you enjoyed his company?"
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "O 'Aisha! Have you ever seen me speaking a bad and dirty language? (Remember that) the worst people in Allah's sight on the Day of Resurrection will be those whom the people leave (undisturbed) to be away from their evil (deeds)."
Hadith - 63
Narrated Anas: The Prophet (ﷺ) was the best among the people (both in shape and character) and was the most generous of them, and was the bravest of them.
Once, during the night, the people of Medina got afraid (of a sound). So the people went towards that sound, but the Prophet (ﷺ) having gone to that sound before them, met them while he was saying, "Don't be afraid, don't be afraid."
(At that time) he was riding a horse belonging to Abu Talha and it was naked without a saddle, and he was carrying a sword slung at his neck. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I found it (the horse) like a sea, or, it is the sea indeed."
Hadith - 64
Narrated Jabir: Never was the Prophet (ﷺ) asked for a thing to be given for which his answer was 'No.'
Hadith - 65
Narrated Masruq: We were sitting with `Abdullah bin `Amr who was narrating to us. He said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was neither a Fahish nor a Mutafahhish, and he used to say, 'The best among you are the best in character (having good manners).'"
Hadith - 66
Narrated Abu Hazim: Sahl bin Sa`d said that a woman brought a Burda (sheet) to the Prophet. Sahl asked the people, "Do you know what is a Burda?" The people replied, "It is a Shamla, a sheet with a fringe."
That woman said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! I have brought it so that you may wear it." So the Prophet (ﷺ) took it because he was in need of it and wore it.
A man among his companions, seeing him wearing it, said, "O Allah's Apostle! Please give it to me to wear." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Yes" (and gave him that sheet).
When the Prophet left, the man was blamed by his companions who said, "It was not nice on your part to ask the Prophet for it, while you know that he took it because he was in need of it, and you also know that he (the Prophet) never turns down anybody's request that he might be asked for."
That man said, "I just wanted to have its blessings as the Prophet (ﷺ) had put it on, so I hoped that I might be shrouded in it."
Hadith - 67
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Time will pass rapidly, good deeds will decrease, and miserliness will be thrown (in the hearts of the people), and the Harj (will increase)."
They asked, "What is the Harj?" He replied, "(It is) killing (murdering), (it is) murdering (killing)."
Hadith - 68
Narrated Anas: I served the Prophet (ﷺ) for ten years, and he never said to me, "Uf" (a minor harsh word denoting impatience) and never blamed me by saying, "Why did you do so or why didn't you do so?"
Hadith - 69
Narrated Al-Aswad: I asked `Aisha what did the Prophet (ﷺ) use to do at home. She replied, "He used to keep himself busy serving his family, and when it was time for the prayer, he would get up for prayer."
Hadith - 70
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'If Allah loves a person, He calls Gabriel saying: "Allah loves so-and-so; O Gabriel, love him."
Gabriel would love him, and then Gabriel would make an announcement among the residents of the Heaven, "Allah loves so-and-so, therefore, you should love him also."
So, all the residents of the Heavens would love him, and then he is granted the pleasure of the people of the earth.'
Hadith - 71
Narrated Anas bin Malik: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "None will have the sweetness (delight) of Faith (a) till he loves a person and loves him only for Allah's sake, (b) and till it becomes dearer to him to be thrown in the fire than to revert to disbelief (Heathenism) after Allah has brought him out of it, (c) and till Allah and His Apostle become dearer to him than anything else."
Hadith - 72
Narrated `Abdullah bin Zam`a: The Prophet (ﷺ) forbade laughing at a person who passes wind, and said, "How does anyone of you beat his wife as he beats the stallion camel and then he may embrace (sleep with) her?" And Hisham said, "As he beats his slave."
Hadith - 73
Narrated Ibn `Umar: The Prophet (ﷺ) said at Mina, "Do you know what day is today?" They (the people) replied, "Allah and His Apostle know better." He said "Today is 10th of Dhul-Hijja, the sacred (forbidden) day. Do you know what town is this town?"
They (the people) replied, "Allah and His Apostle know better." He said, "This is the (forbidden) Sacred town (Mecca a sanctuary). And do you know which month is this month?"
They (the People) replied, "Allah and His Apostle know better." He said, "This is the Sacred (forbidden) month."
He added, "Allah has made your blood, your properties and your honor Sacred to one another (i.e. Muslims) like the sanctity of this day of yours in this month of yours, in this town of yours."
Hadith - 74
Narrated `Abdullah: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Abusing a Muslim is Fusuq (i.e., an evil-doing), and killing him is Kufr (disbelief)."
Hadith - 75
Narrated Abu Dhar: That he heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "If somebody accuses another of Fusuq (by calling him Fasiq, i.e. a wicked person) or accuses him of Kufr, such an accusation will revert to him (i.e. the accuser) if his companion (the accused) is innocent."
Hadith - 76
Narrated Anas: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was neither a Fahish (one who had a bad tongue) nor a Sabbaba (one who abuses others) and he used to say while admonishing somebody, "What is wrong with him? May dust be on his forehead."
Hadith - 77
Narrated Thabit bin Ad-Dahhak (who was one of the companions who gave the pledge of allegiance to the Prophet (ﷺ) underneath the tree (Al-Hudaibiya)): Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Whoever swears by a religion other than Islam (i.e. if somebody swears by saying that he is a non-Muslim e.g., a Jew or a Christian, etc) in case he is telling a lie, he is really so if his oath is false, and a person is not bound to fulfill a vow about a thing which he does not possess.
And if somebody commits suicide with anything in this world, he will be tortured with that very thing on the Day of Resurrection.
And if somebody curses a believer, then his sin will be as if he murdered him. And whoever accuses a believer of Kufr (disbelief), then it is as if he killed him."
Hadith - 78
Narrated Sulaiman bin Surad: A man from the companions of the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Two men abused each other in front of the Prophet (ﷺ) and one of them became angry, and his anger became so intense that his face became swollen and changed.
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I know a word the saying of which will cause him to relax if he does say it." Then a man went to him and informed him of the statement of the Prophet (ﷺ) and said, "Seek refuge with Allah from Satan."
On that, the angry man said, 'Do you find anything wrong with me? Am I insane? Go away.'"
Hadith - 79
Narrated 'Ubada bin As-Samit: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) went out to inform the people about the (date of the Night of decree (Al-Qadr). There happened a quarrel between two Muslim men.
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I came out to inform you about the Night of Al-Qadr, but as so-and-so and so-and-so quarrelled, so the news about it had been taken away; and may be it was better for you. So look for it in the ninth, the seventh, or the fifth (of the last ten days of Ramadan)."
Hadith - 80
Narrated Ma'rur: I saw Abu Dhar wearing a Burd (garment) and his slave too was wearing a Burd, so I said (to Abu Dhar), "If you take this (Burda of your slave) and wear it (along with yours), you will have a nice suit (costume) and you may give him another garment."
Abu Dhar said, "There was a quarrel between me and another man whose mother was a non-Arab and I called her bad names. The man mentioned (complained about) me to the Prophet.
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Did you abuse so-and-so?" I said, "Yes." He said, "Did you call his mother bad names?" I said, "Yes". He said, "You still have the traits of (the Pre-Islamic period of) ignorance." I said, "(Do I still have ignorance) even now in my old age?"
He said, "Yes, they (slaves or servants) are your brothers, and Allah has put them under your command.
So the one under whose hand Allah has put his brother, should feed him of what he eats, and give him dresses of what he wears, and should not ask him to do a thing beyond his capacity. And if at all he asks him to do a hard task, he should help him therein."
Hadith - 81
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) led us in the Zuhr prayer, offering only two rak`at and then (finished it) with Taslim, and went to a piece of wood in front of the mosque and put his hand over it.
Abu Bakr and `Umar were also present among the people on that day but dared not talk to him (about his unfinished prayer). And the hasty people went away, wondering, "Has the prayer been shortened?"
Among the people, there was a man whom the Prophet (ﷺ) used to call Dhul-Yadain (the long-armed). He said, "O Allah's Prophet! Have you forgotten or has the prayer been shortened?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Neither have I forgotten, nor has it been shortened."
They (the people) said, "Surely, you have forgotten, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)!" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Dhul-Yadain has told the truth."
So the Prophet (ﷺ) got up and offered other two rak`at and finished his prayer with Taslim.
Then he said Takbir, performed a prostration of ordinary duration or longer, then he raised his head and said Takbir and performed another prostration of ordinary duration or longer and then raised his head and said Takbir (i.e. he performed the two prostrations of Sahu, i.e., forgetfulness)."
Hadith - 82
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) passed by two graves and said, "Both of them (persons in the grave) are being tortured, and they are not being tortured for a major sin.
This one used not to save himself from being soiled with his urine, and the other used to go about with calumnies (among the people to rouse hostilities, e.g., one goes to a person and tells him that so-and-so says about him such-and-such evil things)."
The Prophet (ﷺ) then asked for a green leaf of a date-palm tree, split it into two pieces and planted one on each grave and said, "It is hoped that their punishment may be abated till those two pieces of the leaf get dried."
Hadith - 83
Narrated Abu Usaid As-Sa`idi: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The best family among the Ansar is the Banu An-Najjar."
Hadith - 84
Narrated `Aisha: A man asked permission to enter upon Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Admit him. What an evil brother of his people or a son of his people." But when the man entered, the Prophet (ﷺ) spoke to him in a very polite manner.
(And when that person left) I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! You had said what you had said, yet you spoke to him in a very polite manner?"
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O `Aisha! The worst people are those whom the people desert or leave in order to save themselves from their dirty language or from their transgression."
Hadith - 85
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: Once the Prophet (ﷺ) went through the grave-yards of Medina and heard the voices of two humans who were being tortured in their graves. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "They are being punished, but they are not being punished because of a major sin, yet their sins are great.
One of them used not to save himself from (being soiled with) the urine, and the other used to go about with calumnies (Namima)."
Then the Prophet asked for a green palm tree leaf and split it into two pieces and placed one piece on each grave, saying, "I hope that their punishment may be abated as long as these pieces of the leaf are not dried."
Hadith - 86
Narrated Hudhaifa: I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "A Qattat will not enter Paradise."
Hadith - 87
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Whoever does not give up false statements (i.e. telling lies), and evil deeds, and speaking bad words to others, Allah is not in need of his (fasting) leaving his food and drink."
Hadith - 88
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The worst people in the Sight of Allah on the Day of Resurrection will be the double faced people who appear to some people with one face and to other people with another face."
Hadith - 89
Narrated Ibn Mas`ud: Once Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) divided and distributed (the war booty). An Ansar man said, "By Allah! Muhammad, by this distribution, did not intend to please Allah."
So I came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and informed him about it whereupon his face became changed with anger and he said, "May Allah bestow His Mercy on Moses for he was hurt with more than this, yet he remained patient."
Hadith - 90
Narrated Abu Musa: The Prophet (ﷺ) heard a man praising another man and he was exaggerating in his praise. The Prophet (ﷺ) said (to him), "You have destroyed (or cut) the back of the man."
Hadith - 91
Narrated Abu Bakra: A man was mentioned before the Prophet (ﷺ) and another man praised him greatly. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "May Allah's Mercy be on you! You have cut the neck of your friend."
The Prophet (ﷺ) repeated this sentence many times and said, "If it is indispensable for anyone of you to praise someone, then he should say, 'I think that he is so-and-so," if he really thinks that he is such. Allah is the One Who will take his accounts (as He knows his reality) and no-one can sanctify anybody before Allah."
(Khalid said, "Woe to you," instead of "Allah's Mercy be on you").
Hadith - 92
Narrated Salim: That his father said; "When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) mentioned what he mentioned about (the hanging of) the Izar (waist sheet), Abu Bakr said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! My Izar slackens on one side (without my intention)."
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "You are not among those (who, out of pride) drag their Izars behind them."
Hadith - 93
Narrated `Aisha: The Prophet (ﷺ) continued for such-and-such period imagining that he had slept (had sexual relations) with his wives, and in fact he did not.
One day he said, to me, 'O `Aisha! Allah has instructed me regarding a matter about which I had asked Him. There came to me two men, one of them sat near my feet and the other near my head.
The one near my feet, asked the one near my head (pointing at me), "What is wrong with this man?" The latter replied, "He is under the effect of magic." The first one asked, "Who had worked magic on him?" The other replied, "Labid bin Asam."
The first one asked, "What material (did he use)?" The other replied, "The skin of the pollen of a male date tree with a comb and the hair stuck to it, kept under a stone in the well of Dharwan."
Then the Prophet (ﷺ) went to that well and said, "This is the same well which was shown to me in the dream. The tops of its date-palm trees look like the heads of the devils, and its water looks like the Henna infusion."
Then the Prophet (ﷺ) ordered that those things be taken out. I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Won't you disclose (the magic object)?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Allah has cured me and I hate to circulate the evil among the people."
`Aisha added, "(The magician) Labid bin Asam was a man from Bani Zuraiq, an ally of the Jews."
Hadith - 94
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Beware of suspicion, for suspicion is the worst of false tales; and do not look for the others' faults and do not spy, and do not be jealous of one another, and do not desert (cut your relation with) one another, and do not hate one another; and O Allah's worshipers! Be brothers (as Allah has ordered you)."
Hadith - 95
Narrated Anas bin Malik: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Do not hate one another, and do not be jealous of one another, and do not desert each other, and O Allah's worshipers! Be brothers.
Lo! It is not permissible for any Muslim to desert (not talk to) his brother (Muslim) for more than three days."
Hadith - 96
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Beware of suspicion, for suspicion is the worst of false tales. And do not look for the others' faults, and do not do spying on one another, and do not practice Najsh, and do not be jealous of one another and do not hate one another, and do not desert (stop talking to) one another.
And O Allah's worshipers! Be brothers."
Hadith - 97
Narrated `Aisha: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I do not think that so-and-so and so-and-so know anything of our religion."
(And Al-Laith said, "These two persons were among the hypocrites").
Hadith - 98
Narrated Al-Laith: `Aisha said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) entered upon me one day and said, 'O `Aisha! I do not think that so-and-so and so-and-so know anything of our religion which we follow.'"
Hadith - 99
Narrated Abu Huraira: I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "All the sins of my followers will be forgiven except those of the Mujahirin (those who commit a sin openly or disclose their sins to the people).
An example of such disclosure is that a person commits a sin at night and though Allah screens it from the public, then he comes in the morning, and says, 'O so-and-so, I did such-and-such (evil) deed yesterday,' though he spent his night screened by his Lord (none knowing about his sin) and in the morning he removes Allah's screen from himself."
Hadith - 100
Narrated Safwan bin Muhriz: A man asked Ibn `Umar, "What did you hear Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying regarding An-Najwa (secret talk between Allah and His believing worshipper on the Day of Judgment)?"
He said, "(The Prophet (ﷺ) said), "One of you will come close to his Lord till He will shelter him in His screen and say: 'Did you commit such-and-such sin?' He will say, 'Yes.'
Then Allah will say: 'Did you commit such-and-such sin?' He will say, 'Yes.'
So Allah will make him confess (all his sins) and He will say, 'I screened them (your sins) for you in the world, and today I forgive them for you.'"
Hadith - 101
Narrated Haritha bin Wahb Al-Khuzai: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Shall I inform you about the people of Paradise? They comprise every obscure unimportant humble person, and if he takes Allah's Oath that he will do that thing, Allah will fulfill his oath (by doing that).
Shall I inform you about the people of the Fire? They comprise every cruel, violent, proud and conceited person."
Hadith - 102
Anas bin Malik said, "Any of the female slaves of Medina could take hold of the hand of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and take him wherever she wished."
Hadith - 103
Narrated `Aisha (the wife of the Prophet): That she was told that `Abdullah bin Az-Zubair (on hearing that she was selling or giving something as a gift) said, "By Allah, if `Aisha does not give up this, I will declare her incompetent to dispose of her wealth."
I said, "Did he (`Abdullah bin Az-Zubair) say so?" They (people) said, "Yes." `Aisha said, "I vow to Allah that I will never speak to Ibn Az-Zubair."
When this desertion lasted long, `Abdullah bin Az-Zubair sought intercession with her, but she said, "By Allah, I will not accept the intercession of anyone for him, and will not commit a sin by breaking my vow."
When this state of affairs was prolonged on Ibn Az-Zubair (he felt it hard on him), he said to Al-Miswar bin Makhrama and `Abdur-Rahman bin Al-Aswad bin 'Abu Yaghuth, who were from the tribe of Bani Zuhra, "I beseech you, by Allah, to let me enter upon `Aisha, for it is unlawful for her to vow to cut the relation with me."
So Al-Miswar and `Abdur-Rahman, wrapping their sheets around themselves, asked `Aisha's permission saying, "Peace and Allah's Mercy and Blessings be upon you! Shall we come in?" `Aisha said, "Come in." They said, "All of us?" She said, "Yes, come in all of you," not knowing that Ibn Az-Zubair was also with them.
So when they entered, Ibn Az-Zubair entered the screened place and got hold of `Aisha and started requesting her to excuse him, and wept. Al-Miswar and `Abdur Rahman also started requesting her to speak to him and to accept his repentance.
They said (to her), "The Prophet (ﷺ) forbade what you know of deserting (not speaking to your Muslim Brethren), for it is unlawful for any Muslim not to talk to his brother for more than three nights (days)."
So when they increased their reminding her (of the superiority of having good relation with Kith and kin, and of excusing others' sins), and brought her down to a critical situation, she started reminding them, and wept, saying, "I have made a vow, and (the question of) vow is a difficult one."
They (Al-Miswar and `Abdur-Rahman) persisted in their appeal till she spoke with `Abdullah bin Az-Zubair and she manumitted forty slaves as an expiation for her vow.
Later on, whenever she remembered her vow, she used to weep so much that her veil used to become wet with her tears.
Hadith - 104
Narrated Anas bin Malik: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Do not hate one another, nor be jealous of one another; and do not desert one another, but O Allah's worshipers! Be Brothers!
And it is unlawful for a Muslim to desert his brother Muslim (and not to talk to him) for more than three nights."
Hadith - 105
Narrated Abu Aiyub Al-Ansari: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "It is not lawful for a man to desert his brother Muslim for more than three nights.
(It is unlawful for them that) when they meet, one of them turns his face away from the other, and the other turns his face from the former, and the better of the two will be the one who greets the other first."
Hadith - 106
Narrated `Aisha: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "I know whether you are angry or pleased." I said, "How do you know that, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)?"
He said, "When you are pleased, you say, "Yes, by the Lord of Muhammad,' but when you are angry, you say, 'No, by the Lord of Abraham!'" I said, "Yes, I do not leave, except your name."
Hadith - 107
Narrated `Aisha (the wife of the Prophet): "I do not remember my parents believing in any religion other than the Religion (of Islam), and our being visited by Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) in the morning and in the evening.
One day, while we were sitting in the house of Abu Bakr (my father) at noon, someone said, 'This is Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) coming at an hour at which he never used to visit us.'
Abu Bakr said, 'There must be something very urgent that has brought him at this hour.' The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'I have been allowed to go out (of Mecca) to migrate.'"
Hadith - 108
Narrated Anas bin Malik: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) visited a household among the Ansars, and he took a meal with them.
When he intended to leave, he asked for a place in that house for him to pray, so a mat sprinkled with water was put and he offered prayer over it, and invoked for Allah's Blessing upon them (his hosts).
Hadith - 109
Narrated `Abdullah: `Umar saw a silken cloak over a man (for sale) so he took it to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said, 'O Allah's Apostle! Buy this and wear it when the delegate come to you.' He said, 'The silk is worn by one who will have no share (in the Here-after).'
Some time passed after this event, and then the Prophet (ﷺ) sent a (similar) cloak to him. `Umar brought that cloak back to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said, 'You have sent this to me, and you said about a similar one what you said?'
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'I have sent it to you so that you may get money by selling it.'
Because of this, Ibn `Umar used to hate the silken markings on the garments.
Hadith - 110
Narrated Anas: When `Abdur-Rahman came to us, the Prophet (ﷺ) established a bond of brotherhood between him and Sa`d bin Ar-Rabi`. Once the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "As you (O `Abdur-Rahman) have married, give a wedding banquet even if with one sheep."
Hadith - 111
Narrated `Asim: I said to Anas bin Malik, "Did it reach you that the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "There is no treaty of brotherhood in Islam?" Anas said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) made a treaty (of brotherhood) between the Ansar and the Quraish in my home."
Hadith - 112
Narrated `Aisha: Rifa`a Al-Qurazi divorced his wife irrevocably (i.e. that divorce was the final). Later on, `Abdur-Rahman bin Az-Zubair married her after him.
She came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! I was Rifa`a's wife and he divorced me thrice, and then I was married to `Abdur-Rahman bin Az-Zubair, who, by Allah has nothing with him except something like this fringe, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)," showing a fringe she had taken from her covering sheet.
Abu Bakr was sitting with the Prophet (ﷺ) while Khalid Ibn Sa`id bin Al-As was sitting at the gate of the room waiting for admission. Khalid started calling Abu Bakr, "O Abu Bakr! Why don't you reprove this lady from what she is openly saying before Allah's Apostle?"
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) did nothing except smiling, and then said (to the lady), "Perhaps you want to go back to Rifa`a? No, (it is not possible), unless and until you enjoy the sexual relation with him (`Abdur Rahman), and he enjoys the sexual relation with you."
Hadith - 113
Narrated Sa`d: `Umar bin Al-Khattab asked permission of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) to see him while some Quraishi women were sitting with him and they were asking him to give them more financial support while raising their voices over the voice of the Prophet.
When `Umar asked permission to enter, all of them hurried to screen themselves. The Prophet (ﷺ) admitted `Umar and he entered, while the Prophet (ﷺ) was smiling.
`Umar said, "May Allah always keep you smiling, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Let my father and mother be sacrificed for you!"
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I am astonished at these women who were with me. As soon as they heard your voice, they hastened to screen themselves." `Umar said, "You have more right, that they should be afraid of you, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)!"
And then he (`Umar) turned towards them and said, "O enemies of your souls! You are afraid of me and not of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)?" The women replied, "Yes, for you are sterner and harsher than Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)."
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "O Ibn Al-Khattab! By Him in Whose Hands my life is, whenever Satan sees you taking a way, he follows a way other than yours."
Hadith - 114
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar: When Allah Apostle was in Ta'if (trying to conquer it), he said to his companions, "Tomorrow we will return (to Medina), if Allah wills."
Some of the companions of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "We will not leave till we conquer it." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Therefore, be ready to fight tomorrow." On the following day, they (Muslims) fought fiercely (with the people of Ta'if) and suffered many wounds.
Then Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Tomorrow we will return (to Medina), if Allah wills." His companions kept quiet this time. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) then smiled.
Hadith - 115
Narrated Abu Huraira: A man came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said, "I have been ruined for I have had sexual relation with my wife in Ramadan (while I was fasting)" The Prophet (ﷺ) said (to him), "Manumit a slave." The man said, " I cannot afford that."
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "(Then) fast for two successive months continuously". The man said, "I cannot do that." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "(Then) feed sixty poor persons." The man said, "I have nothing (to feed them with)."
Then a big basket full of dates was brought to the Prophet. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Where is the questioner? Go and give this in charity." The man said, "(Shall I give this in charity) to a poorer person than I? By Allah, there is no family in between these two mountains (of Medina) who are poorer than we."
The Prophet (ﷺ) then smiled till his premolar teeth became visible, and said, "Then (feed) your (family with it)."
Hadith - 116
Narrated Anas bin Malik: While I was going along with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) who was wearing a Najrani Burd (sheet) with a thick border, a bedouin overtook the Prophet (ﷺ) and pulled his Rida' (sheet) forcibly.
I looked at the side of the shoulder of the Prophet (ﷺ) and noticed that the edge of the Rida' had left a mark on it because of the violence of his pull.
The bedouin said, "O Muhammad! Order for me some of Allah's property which you have." The Prophet (ﷺ) turned towards him, (smiled) and ordered that he be given something.
Hadith - 117
Narrated Jarir: The Prophet (ﷺ) did not screen himself from me (had never prevented me from entering upon him) since I embraced Islam, and whenever he saw me, he would receive me with a smile.
Once I told him that I could not sit firm on horses. He stroked me on the chest with his hand, and said, "O Allah! Make him firm, and make him a guiding and a rightly guided man."
Hadith - 118
Narrated Zainab bint Um Salama: Um Sulaim said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Verily Allah is not shy of (telling you) the truth. Is it essential for a woman to take a bath after she had a wet dream (nocturnal sexual discharge)?" He said, "Yes, if she notices discharge."
On that, Um Salama laughed and said, "Does a woman get a (nocturnal sexual) discharge?" He said, "How then does (her) son resemble her (his mother)?"
Hadith - 119
Narrated `Aisha: I never saw the Prophet (ﷺ) laughing to an extent that one could see his palate, but he always used to smile only.
Hadith - 120
Narrated Anas: A man came to the Prophet (ﷺ) on a Friday while he (the Prophet) was delivering a sermon at Medina, and said, "There is lack of rain, so please invoke your Lord to bless us with the rain."
The Prophet (ﷺ) looked at the sky when no cloud could be detected. Then he invoked Allah for rain. Clouds started gathering together and it rained till the Medina valleys started flowing with water. It continued raining till the next Friday.
Then that man (or some other man) stood up while the Prophet (ﷺ) was delivering the Friday sermon, and said, "We are drowned; Please invoke your Lord to withhold it (rain) from us."
The Prophet smiled and said twice or thrice, "O Allah! Please let it rain round about us and not upon us."
The clouds started dispersing over Medina to the right and to the left, and it rained round about Medina and not upon Medina. Allah showed them (the people) the miracle of His Prophet and His response to his invocation.
Hadith - 121
Narrated `Abdullah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Truthfulness leads to righteousness, and righteousness leads to Paradise. And a man keeps on telling the truth until he becomes a truthful person.
Falsehood leads to Al-Fujur (i.e. wickedness, evil-doing), and Al-Fujur (wickedness) leads to the (Hell) Fire, and a man may keep on telling lies till he is written before Allah a liar."
Hadith - 122
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The signs of a hypocrite are three: Whenever he speaks, he tells a lie; and whenever he promises, he breaks his promise; and whenever he is entrusted, he betrays (proves to be dishonest)."
Hadith - 123
Narrated Samura bin Jundub: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I saw (in a dream), two men came to me."
Then the Prophet (ﷺ) narrated the story (saying), "They said, 'The person, the one whose cheek you saw being torn away (from the mouth to the ear) was a liar and used to tell lies, and the people would report those lies on his authority till they spread all over the world.
So he will be punished like that till the Day of Resurrection.'"
Hadith - 124
Narrated Hudhaifa: From among the people, Ibn Um `Abd greatly resembled Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) in solemn gate and good appearance of piety and in calmness and sobriety from the time he goes out of his house till he returns to it.
But we do not know how he behaves with his family when he is alone with them.
Hadith - 125
Narrated Tariq: `Abdullah said, "The best talk is Allah's Book (Qur'an), and the best guidance is the guidance of Muhammad."
Hadith - 126
Narrated Abu Musa: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: "None is more patient than Allah against the harmful saying. He hears from the people they ascribe children to Him, yet He gives them health and (supplies them with) provision."
Hadith - 127
Narrated `Abdullah: The Prophet (ﷺ) divided and distributed something as he used to do for some of his distributions. A man from the Ansar said, "By Allah, in this division the pleasure of Allah has not been intended."
I said, "I will definitely tell this to the Prophet (ﷺ)." So I went to him while he was sitting with his companions and told him of it secretly.
That was hard upon the Prophet (ﷺ) and the color of his face changed, and he became so angry that I wished I had not told him. The Prophet (ﷺ) then said, "Moses was harmed with more than this, yet he remained patient."
Hadith - 128
Narrated `Aisha: The Prophet (ﷺ) did something and allowed his people to do it, but some people refrained from doing it.
When the Prophet (ﷺ) learned of that, he delivered a sermon, and after having sent Praises to Allah, he said, "What is wrong with such people as refrain from doing a thing that I do? By Allah, I know Allah better than they, and I am more afraid of Him than they."
Hadith - 129
Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri: The Prophet (ﷺ) was more shy than a virgin in her separate room. And if he saw a thing which he disliked, we would recognize that (feeling) in his face.
Hadith - 130
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If a man says to his brother, 'O Kafir (disbeliever)!' Then surely one of them is such (i.e., a Kafir)."
Hadith - 131
Narrated 'Abdullah bin 'Umar: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If anyone says to his brother, 'O disbeliever!' Then surely, one of them is such."
Hadith - 132
Narrated Thabit bin Ad-Dahhak: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Whoever swears by a religion other than Islam (i.e. if he swears by saying that he is a non-Muslim in case he is telling a lie), then he is as he says if his oath is false, and whoever commits suicide with something, will be punished with the same thing in the (Hell) fire, and cursing a believer is like murdering him, and whoever accuses a believer of disbelief, then it is as if he had killed him."
Hadith - 133
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah: Mu`adh bin Jabal used to pray with the Prophet (ﷺ) and then go to lead his people in prayer. Once he led the people in prayer and recited Surat-al-Baqara. A man left (the row of the praying people) and offered (light) prayer (separately) and went away.
When Mu`adh came to know about it, he said, "He (that man) is a hypocrite." Later, that man heard what Mu`adh said about him, so he came to the Prophet and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! We are people who work with our own hands and irrigate (our farms) with our camels.
Last night Mu`adh led us in the (night) prayer and he recited Surah-al-Baqara, so I offered my prayer separately, and because of that, he accused me of being a hypocrite."
The Prophet called Mu`adh and said thrice, "O Mu`adh! You are putting the people to trials? Recite 'By the sun and its brightness' (Surah 91) or 'Exalt the name of your Lord, the Most High,' (Surah 87) or the like."
Hadith - 134
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said: 'Whoever amongst you swears, (saying by error) in his oath "By Al-Lat and Al-Uzza", then he should say, "None has the right to be worshipped but Allah."
And whoever says to his companions, "Come let me gamble with you", then he must give something in charity (as an expiation for such a sin).'
Hadith - 135
Narrated Ibn `Umar: That he found `Umar bin Al-Khattab in a group of people and he was swearing by his father.
So Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) called them, saying, "Verily! Allah forbids you to swear by your fathers. If one has to take an oath, he should swear by Allah or otherwise keep quiet."
Hadith - 136
Narrated `Aisha: The Prophet (ﷺ) entered upon me while there was a curtain having pictures (of animals) in the house. His face got red with anger, and then he got hold of the curtain and tore it into pieces.
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Such people as paint these pictures will receive the severest punishment on the Day of Resurrection."
Hadith - 137
Narrated Abu Mas`ud: A man came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said, "I keep away from the morning prayer only because such-and-such person prolongs the prayer when he leads us in it."
The narrator added: I had never seen Allah's Apostle more furious in giving advice than he was on that day. He said, "O people! There are some among you who make others dislike good deeds) cause the others to have aversion (to congregational prayers).
Beware! Whoever among you leads the people in prayer should not prolong it, because among them there are the sick, the old, and the needy."
Hadith - 138
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar: While the Prophet (ﷺ) was praying, he saw sputum (on the wall) of the mosque, in the direction of the Qibla, and so he scraped it off with his hand, and the sign of disgust (was apparent from his face) and then said, "Whenever anyone of you is in prayer, he should not spit in front of him (in prayer) because Allah is in front of him."
Hadith - 139
Narrated Zaid bin Khalid Al-Juhani: A man asked Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) about "Al-Luqata" (a lost fallen purse or a thing picked up by somebody).
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "You should announce it publicly for one year, and then remember and recognize the tying material of its container, and then you can spend it. If its owner came to you, then you should pay him its equivalent."
The man said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! What about a lost sheep?" The Prophet said, "Take it because it is for you, for your brother, or for the wolf."
The man again said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! What about a lost camel?" Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) became very angry and furious and his cheeks became red (or his face became red), and he said, "You have nothing to do with it (the camel), for it has its food and its water container with it till it meets its owner."
Hadith - 140
Narrated Zaid bin Thabit: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) made a small room (with a palm leaf mat). Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) came out (of his house) and prayed in it. Some men came and joined him in his prayer.
Then again the next night they came for the prayer, but Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) delayed and did not come out to them. So they raised their voices and knocked the door with small stones (to draw his attention).
He came out to them in a state of anger, saying, "You are still insisting (on your deed, i.e. Tarawih prayer in the mosque) that I thought that this prayer (Tarawih) might become obligatory on you.
So you people, offer this prayer at your homes, for the best prayer of a person is the one which he offers at home, except the compulsory (congregational) prayer."
Hadith - 141
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The strong is not the one who overcomes the people by his strength, but the strong is the one who controls himself while in anger."
Hadith - 142
Narrated Sulaiman bin Surad: Two men abused each other in front of the Prophet (ﷺ) while we were sitting with him. One of the two abused his companion furiously and his face became red.
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I know a word (sentence) the saying of which will cause him to relax if this man says it. Only if he said, "I seek refuge with Allah from Satan, the outcast.'"
So they said to that (furious) man, 'Don't you hear what the Prophet (ﷺ) is saying?" He said, "I am not mad."
Hadith - 143
Narrated Abu Huraira: A man said to the Prophet (ﷺ), "Advise me! "The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Do not become angry and furious." The man asked (the same) again and again, and the Prophet (ﷺ) said in each case, "Do not become angry and furious."
Hadith - 144
Narrated Abu As-Sawwar Al-Adawi: `Imran bin Husain said: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Haya' (pious shyness from committing religious indiscretions) does not bring anything except good."
Thereupon Bashir bin Ka`b said, 'It is written in the wisdom paper: Haya' leads to solemnity; Haya' leads to tranquility (peace of mind)."'
`Imran said to him, "I am narrating to you the saying of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and you are speaking about your paper (wisdom book)?"
Hadith - 145
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar: The Prophet (ﷺ) passed by a man who was admonishing his brother regarding Haya' (pious shyness from committing religious indiscretions) and was saying, "You are very shy, and I am afraid that might harm you."
On that, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Leave him, for Haya' is (a part) of Faith."
Hadith - 146
Narrated Abu Sa`id: The Prophet (ﷺ) was more shy (from Haya': pious shyness from committing religious indiscretions) than a veiled virgin girl.
Hadith - 147
Narrated Abu Mas`ud: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "One of the sayings of the early Prophets which the people have got is: 'If you don't feel ashamed (from Haya': pious shyness from committing religious indiscretions) do whatever you like.'"
Hadith - 148
Narrated Um Salama: Um Sulaim came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Verily, Allah does not feel shy to tell the truth. If a woman gets a nocturnal sexual discharge (has a wet dream), is it essential for her to take a bath?" He replied, "Yes if she notices a discharge."
Hadith - 149
Narrated Ibn `Umar: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The example of a believer is like a green tree, the leaves of which do not fall."
The people said, "It is such-and-such tree. It is such-and-such tree." I intended to say that it was the date-palm tree, but I was a young boy and felt shy (to answer). The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "It is the date-palm tree."
Ibn `Umar added, "I told that to `Umar who said, 'Had you said it, I would have preferred it to such-and-such a thing.'"
Hadith - 150
Narrated Thabit: That he heard Anas saying, "A woman came to the Prophet (ﷺ) offering herself to him in marriage, saying, "Have you got any interest in me (i.e. would you like to marry me?)"
Anas's daughter said, "How shameless that woman was!" On that, Anas said, "She is better than you, for she presented herself to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (for marriage)."
Hadith - 151
Narrated Abu Musa: That when Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) sent him and Mu`adh bin Jabal to Yemen, he said to them, "Facilitate things for the people (treat the people in the most agreeable way), and do not make things difficult for them, and give them glad tidings, and let them not have aversion (i.e. to make the people hate good deeds) and you should both work in cooperation and mutual understanding, obey each other."
Abu Musa said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! We are in a land in which a drink named Al-Bit' is prepared from honey, and another drink named Al-Mizr is prepared from barley." On that, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "All intoxicants (i.e. all alcoholic drinks) are prohibited."
Hadith - 152
Narrated Anas bin Malik: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Make things easy for the people, and do not make it difficult for them, and make them calm (with glad tidings) and do not repulse (them)."
Hadith - 153
Narrated `Aisha: Whenever Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was given the choice of one of two matters he would choose the easier of the two as long as it was not sinful to do so, but if it was sinful, he would not approach it.
Allah's Apostle never took revenge over anybody for his own sake but (he did) only when Allah's legal bindings were outraged, in which case he would take revenge for Allah's sake."
Hadith - 154
Narrated Al-Azraq bin Qais: We were in the city of Al-Ahwaz on the bank of a river which had dried up. Then Abu Barza Al-Aslami came riding a horse and he started praying and let his horse loose.
The horse ran away, so Abu Barza interrupted his prayer and went after the horse till he caught it and brought it, and then he offered his prayer.
There was a man amongst us who was (from the Khawarij) having a different opinion. He came saying, "Look at this old man! He left his prayer because of a horse."
On that, Abu Barza came to us and said, "Since the time I left Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), nobody has admonished me. My house is very far from this place, and if I had carried on praying and left my horse, I could not have reached my house till night."
Then Abu Barza mentioned that he had been in the company of the Prophet, and that he had seen his leniency.
Hadith - 155
Narrated Abu Huraira: A bedouin urinated in the mosque, and the people rushed to beat him. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) ordered them to leave him and pour a bucket or a tumbler (full) of water over the place where he has passed urine.
The Prophet then said, "You have been sent to make things easy (for the people) and you have not been sent to make things difficult for them."
Hadith - 156
Narrated Anas bin Malik: The Prophet (ﷺ) used to mix with us to the extent that he would say to a younger brother of mine, 'O Aba `Umair! What did the Nughair (a kind of bird) do?"
Hadith - 157
Narrated `Aisha: I used to play with the dolls in the presence of the Prophet, and my girl friends also used to play with me.
When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to enter (my dwelling place) they used to hide themselves, but the Prophet would call them to join and play with me. (The playing with the dolls and similar images is forbidden, but it was allowed for `Aisha at that time, as she was a little girl, not yet reached the age of puberty.)
Hadith - 158
Narrated Aisha: A man asked permission to see the Prophet. He said, "Let him come in; What an evil man of the tribe he is! (Or, What an evil brother of the tribe he is)." But when he entered, the Prophet (ﷺ) spoke to him gently in a polite manner.
I said to him, "O Allah's Apostle! You have said what you have said, then you spoke to him in a very gentle and polite manner?"
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The worst people in the sight of Allah are those whom the people leave (undisturbed) to save themselves from their dirty language."
Hadith - 159
Narrated `Abdullah bin Abu Mulaika: The Prophet (ﷺ) was given a gift of a few silken cloaks with gold buttons. He distributed them amongst some of his companions and put aside one of them for Makhrama. When Makhrama came, the Prophet said, "I kept this for you."
(Aiyub, the sub-narrator held his garment to show how the Prophet (ﷺ) showed the cloak to Makhrama who had something unfavorable about his temper.)
Hadith - 160
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "A believer is not stung twice (by something) out of one and the same hole."
Hadith - 161
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Amr: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) entered upon me and said, "Have I not been informed that you offer prayer all the night and fast the whole day?" I said, "Yes."
He said, "Do not do so. Offer prayer at night and also sleep; Fast for a few days and give up fasting for a few days, because your body has a right on you, and your eye has a right on you, and your guest has a right on you, and your wife has a right on you.
I hope that you will have a long life, and it is sufficient for you to fast for three days a month as the reward of a good deed is multiplied ten times, that means, as if you fasted the whole year."
I insisted (on fasting more) so I was given a hard instruction. I said, "I can do more than that (fasting)." The Prophet said, "Fast three days every week."
But as I insisted (on fasting more) so I was burdened. I said, "I can fast more than that." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Fast as Allah's prophet David used to fast." I said, "How was the fasting of the prophet David?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "One half of a year (i.e. he used to fast on alternate days)."
Hadith - 162
Narrated Abu Shuraih Al-Ka`bi: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Whoever believes in Allah and the Last Day, should serve his guest generously. The guest's reward is: To provide him with a superior type of food for a night and a day and a guest is to be entertained with food for three days, and whatever is offered beyond that, is regarded as something given in charity.
And it is not lawful for a guest to stay with his host for such a long period so as to put him in a critical position."
Narrated Malik: Similarly as above, adding, "Who believes in Allah and the Last Day should talk what is good or keep quiet" (i.e. abstain from dirty and evil talk, and should think before uttering).
Hadith - 163
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Whoever believes in Allah and the Last Day should not hurt his neighbor, and whoever believes in Allah and the Last Day should serve his guest generously, and whoever believes in Allah and the Last Day, should speak what is good or keep silent."
Hadith - 164
Narrated `Uqba bin 'Amir: We said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! You send us out and it happens that we have to stay with such people as do not entertain us. What do you think about it?"
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said to us, "If you stay with some people and they entertain you as they should for a guest, accept is; but if they do not do then you should take from them the right of the guest which they ought to give."
Hadith - 165
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Whoever believes in Allah and the Last Day, should serve his guest generously; and whoever believes in Allah and the Last Day, should unite the bond of kinship (i.e. keep good relation with his kith and kin); and whoever believes in Allah and the Last Day, should talk what is good or keep quiet."
Hadith - 166
Narrated Abu Juhaifa: The Prophet (ﷺ) established a bond of brotherhood between Salman and Abu Darda'. Salman paid a visit to Abu ad-Darda and found Um Ad-Darda' dressed in shabby clothes and asked her why she was in that state?" She replied, "Your brother, Abu Ad-Darda is not interested in the luxuries of this world."
In the meantime Abu Ad-Darda came and prepared a meal for him (Salman), and said to him, "(Please) eat for I am fasting." Salman said, "I am not going to eat, unless you eat." So Abu Ad-Darda' ate.
When it was night, Abu Ad-Darda' got up (for the night prayer). Salman said (to him), "Sleep," and he slept. Again Abu Ad-Darda' got up (for the prayer), and Salman said (to him), "Sleep."
When it was the last part of the night, Salman said to him, "Get up now (for the prayer)." So both of them offered their prayers and Salman said to Abu Ad-Darda', "Your Lord has a right on you; and your soul has a right on you; and your family has a right on you; so you should give the rights of all those who have a right on you."
Later on Abu Ad-Darda' visited the Prophet (ﷺ) and mentioned that to him. The Prophet, said, "Salman has spoken the truth."
Hadith - 167
Narrated `Abdur-Rahman bin Abu Bakr: Abu Bakr invited a group of people and told me, "Look after your guests." Abu Bakr added, "I am going to visit the Prophet (ﷺ) and you should finish serving them before I return."
`Abdur-Rahman said, "So I went at once and served them with what was available at that time in the house and requested them to eat." They said, "Where is the owner of the house (i.e., Abu Bakr)?" `Abdur-Rahman said, "Take your meal."
They said, "We will not eat till the owner of the house comes." `Abdur-Rahman said, "Accept your meal from us, for if my father comes and finds you not having taken your meal yet, we will be blamed severely by him," but they refused to take their meals.
So I was sure that my father would be angry with me. When he came, I went away (to hide myself) from him. He asked, "What have you done (about the guests)?" They informed him the whole story.
Abu Bakr called, "O `Abdur Rahman!" I kept quiet. He then called again, "O `Abdur-Rahman!" I kept quiet and he called again, "O ignorant (boy)! I beseech you by Allah, if you hear my voice, then come out!"
I came out and said, "Please ask your guests (and do not be angry with me)." They said, "He has told the truth; he brought the meal to us."
He said, "As you have been waiting for me, by Allah, I will not eat of it tonight." They said, "By Allah, we will not eat of it till you eat of it." He said, "I have never seen a night like this night in evil. What is wrong with you? Why don't you accept your meals of hospitality from us?" (He said to me), "Bring your meal."
I brought it to him, and he put his hand in it, saying, "In the name of Allah. The first (state of fury) was because of Satan." So Abu Bakr ate and so did his guests.
Hadith - 168
Narrated `Abdur-Rahman bin Abu Bakr: Abu Bakr came with a guest or some guests, but he stayed late at night with the Prophet (ﷺ) and when he came, my mother said (to him), "Have you been detained from your guest or guests tonight?"
He said, "Haven't you served the supper to them?" She replied, "We presented the meal to him (or to them), but he (or they) refused to eat." Abu Bakr became angry, rebuked me and invoked Allah to cause (my) ears to be cut and swore not to eat of it. I hid myself, and he called me, "O ignorant (boy)!"
Abu Bakr's wife swore that she would not eat of it and so the guests or the guest swore that they would not eat of it till he ate of it.
Abu Bakr said, "All that happened was from Satan." So he asked for the meals and ate of it, and so did they. Whenever they took a handful of the meal, the meal grew (increased) from underneath more than that mouthful.
He said (to his wife), "O, sister of Bani Firas! What is this?" She said, "O, pleasure of my eyes! The meal is now more than it had been before we started eating."
So they ate of it and sent the rest of that meal to the Prophet. It is said that the Prophet (ﷺ) also ate of it.
Hadith - 169
Narrated Rafi` bin Khadij and Sahl bin Abu Hathma: `Abdullah bin Sahl and Muhaiyisa bin Mas`ud went to Khaibar and they dispersed in the gardens of the date-palm trees. `Abdullah bin Sahl was murdered.
Then `Abdur-Rahman bin Sahl, Huwaiyisa and Muhaiyisa, the two sons of Mas`ud, came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and spoke about the case of their (murdered) friend.
`Abdur-Rahman who was the youngest of them all, started talking. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Let the older (among you) speak first." So they spoke about the case of their (murdered) friend.
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Will fifty of you take an oath whereby you will have the right to receive the blood money of your murdered man," (or said, "...your companion"). They said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! The murder was a thing we did not witness."
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Then the Jews will release you from the oath, if fifty of them (the Jews) should take an oath to contradict your claim."
They said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! They are disbelievers (and they will take a false oath)." Then Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) himself paid the blood money to them.
Hadith - 170
Narrated Ibn `Umar: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Inform me of a tree which resembles a Muslim, giving its fruits at every season by the permission of its Lord, and the leaves of which do not fall."
I thought of the date-palm tree, but I disliked to speak because Abu Bakr and `Umar were present there. When nobody spoke, the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "It is the date-palm tree."
When I came out with my father, I said, "O father! It came to my mind that it was the date-palm tree." He said, "What prevented you from saying it? Had you said it, it would have been more dearer to me than such-and-such a thing (fortune)."
I said, "Nothing prevented me but the fact that neither you nor Abu Bakr spoke, so I disliked to speak (in your presence)."
Hadith - 171
Narrated Ubai bin Ka`b: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Some poetry contains wisdom."
Hadith - 172
Narrated Jundub: While the Prophet (ﷺ) was walking, a stone hit his foot and stumbled and his toe was injured. He then (quoting a poetic verse) said, "You are not more than a toe which has been bathed in blood in Allah's Cause."
Hadith - 173
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The most true words said by a poet were the words of Labid. He said, 'Verily, everything except Allah is perishable.'" And Umaiya bin Abi As-Salt was about to embrace Islam.
Hadith - 174
Narrated Salama bin Al-Akwa: We went out with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) to Khaibar and we travelled during the night. A man amongst the people said to 'Amir bin Al-Akwa', "Won't you let us hear your poetry?"
'Amir was a poet, and so he got down and started (chanting Huda) reciting for the people, poetry that keep pace with the camel's foot steps, saying, "O Allah! Without You we would not have been guided on the right path, neither would we have given in charity, nor would we have prayed.
So please forgive us what we have committed. Let all of us be sacrificed for Your cause and when we meet our enemy, make our feet firm and bestow peace and calmness on us and if they (our enemy) will call us towards an unjust thing we will refuse. The infidels have made a hue and cry to ask others help against us."
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Who is that driver (of the camels)?" They said, "He is 'Amir bin Al-Akwa."' He said, "May Allah bestow His mercy on him."
A man among the people said, Has Martyrdom been granted to him, O Allah's Prophet! Would that you let us enjoy his company longer."
We reached (the people of) Khaibar and besieged them till we were stricken with severe hunger but Allah helped the Muslims conquer Khaibar.
In the evening of its conquest the people made many fires. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) asked, "What are those fires? For what are you making fires?" They said, "For cooking meat." He asked, "What kind of meat?" They said, "Donkeys' meat."
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Throw away the meat and break the cooking pots." A man said, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Shall we throw away the meat and wash the cooking pots?" He said, "You can do that too."
When the army files aligned in rows (for the battle), 'Amir's sword was a short one, and while attacking a Jew with it in order to hit him, the sharp edge of the sword turned back and hit 'Amir's knee and caused him to die.
When the Muslims returned (from the battle), Salama said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saw me pale and said, 'What is wrong with you?'" I said, "Let my parents be sacrificed for you! The people claim that all the deeds of Amir have been annulled."
The Prophet (ﷺ) asked, "Who said so?" I replied, "So-and-so and so-and-so, and Usaid bin Al-Hudair Al-Ansari said, 'Whoever says so is telling a lie. Verily, 'Amir will have double reward."'
(While speaking) the Prophet (ﷺ) put two of his fingers together to indicate that, and added, "He was really a hard-working man and a Mujahid (devout fighter in Allah's Cause) and rarely have there lived in it (i.e., Medina or the battle-field) an Arab like him."
Hadith - 175
Narrated Anas bin Malik: The Prophet (ﷺ) came to some of his wives among whom there was Um Sulaim, and said, "May Allah be merciful to you, O Anjasha! Drive the camels slowly, as they are carrying glass vessels!"
Abu Qilaba said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) said a sentence (i.e. the above metaphor) which, had anyone of you said it, you would have admonished him for it."
Hadith - 176
Narrated `Aisha: Hassan bin Thabit asked the permission of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) to lampoon the pagans (in verse). Allah's Apostle said, "What about my fore-fathers (ancestry)?" Hassan said (to the Prophet) "I will take you out of them as a hair is taken out of dough."
Narrated Hisham bin `Urwa that his father said, "I called Hassan with bad names in front of `Aisha." She said, "Don't call him with bad names because he used to defend Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (against the pagans)."
Hadith - 177
Narrated Al-Haitham bin Abu Sinan: That he heard Abu Huraira in his narration, mentioning that the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "A Muslim brother of yours who does not say dirty words," and by that he meant Ibn Rawaha, "said (in verse): 'We have Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) with us who recites the Holy Qur'an in the early morning time.
He gave us guidance and light while we were blind and astray, so our hearts are sure that whatever he says will certainly happen. He does not touch his bed at night, being busy in worshipping Allah while the pagans are sound asleep in their beds.'"
Hadith - 178
Narrated Abu Salama bin `Abdur-Rahman bin `Auf: That he heard Hassan bin Thabit Al-Ansari asking the witness of Abu Huraira, saying, "O Abu Huraira! I beseech you by Allah (to tell me).
Did you hear Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying' 'O Hassan! Reply on behalf of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). O Allah ! Support him (Hassan) with the Holy Spirit (Gabriel).'?" Abu Huraira said, "Yes."
Hadith - 179
Narrated Al-Bara: The Prophet (ﷺ) said to Hassan, "Lampoon them (the pagans) in verse, and Gabriel is with you."
Hadith - 180
Narrated Ibn `Umar: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "It is better for a man to fill the inside of his body with pus than to fill it with poetry."
Hadith - 181
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ); said, "It is better for anyone of you that the inside of his body be filled with pus which may consume his body, than it be filled with poetry."
Hadith - 182
Narrated `Aisha: Aflah, the brother of Abu Al-Qu'ais, asked my permission to enter after the verses of Al-Hijab (veiling the ladies) was revealed, and I said, "By Allah, I will not admit him unless I take permission of Allah's Apostle, for it was not the brother of Al-Qu'ais who had suckled me, but it was the wife of Al-Qu'ais who had suckled me."
Then Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) entered upon me, and I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! The man has not nursed me but his wife has nursed me."
He said, "Admit him because he is your uncle (not from blood relation, but because you have been nursed by his wife), Taribat Yaminuki."
`Urwa said, "Because of this reason, 'Aisha used to say: Foster suckling relations render all those things (marriages etc) illegal which are illegal because of the corresponding blood relations."
Hadith - 183
Narrated `Aisha: The Prophet (ﷺ) intended to return home after the performance of the Hajj, and he saw Safiya standing at the entrance of her tent, depressed and sad because she got her menses.
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Aqra Halqa! - An expression used in the Quraish dialect - "You will detain us."
The Prophet (ﷺ) then asked (her), "Did you perform the Tawaf Al-Ifada on the Day of Sacrifice (10th of Dhul-Hijja)?" She said, "Yes." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Then you can leave (with us)."
Hadith - 184
Narrated Um Hani (the daughter of Abu Talib): I visited Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) in the year of the Conquest of Mecca and found him taking a bath, and his daughter, Fatima was screening him.
When I greeted him, he said, "Who is it?" I replied, "I am Um Hani, the daughter of Abu Talib." He said, "Welcome, O Um Hani!"
When the Prophet (ﷺ) had finished his bath, he stood up and offered eight rak`at of prayer while he was wrapped in a single garment.
When he had finished his prayer, I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! My maternal brother assumes (or claims) that he will murder some man whom I have given shelter, i.e., so-and-so bin Hubaira."
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "O Um Hani! We shelter him whom you have sheltered." Um Hani added, "That happened in the forenoon."
Hadith - 185
Narrated Anas: The Prophet (ﷺ) saw a man driving a Badana (a camel for sacrifice) and said (to him), "Ride it." The man said, "It is a Badana." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Ride on it." The man said, "It is a Badana." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Ride on it, woe to you."
Hadith - 186
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saw a man driving a Badana (a camel for sacrifice) and said to him, "Ride on it." The man said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! It is a Badana." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Ride on it, woe to you!" on the second or third time.
Hadith - 187
Narrated Anas bin Malik: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was on a journey and he had a black slave called Anjasha, and he was driving the camels (very fast, and there were women riding on those camels).
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Waihaka (May Allah be merciful to you), O Anjasha! Drive slowly (the camels) with the glass vessels (women)."
Hadith - 188
Narrated Abu Bakra: A man praised another man in front of the Prophet. The Prophet (ﷺ) said thrice, "Wailaka (Woe on you)! You have cut the neck of your brother!"
The Prophet (ﷺ) added, "If it is indispensable for anyone of you to praise a person, then he should say, 'I think that such-and-such person (is so-and-so), and Allah is the one who will take his accounts (as He knows his reality) and none can sanctify anybody before Allah (and that only if he knows well about that person).'"
Hadith - 189
Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri: While the Prophet (ﷺ) was distributing (war booty etc) one day, Dhul Khuwaisira, a man from the tribe of Bani Tamim, said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Act justly."
The Prophets said, "Woe to you! Who else would act justly if I did not act justly?" `Umar said (to the Prophet (ﷺ)), "Allow me to chop his neck off."
The Prophet said, "No, for he has companions (who are apparently so pious that) if anyone of (you compares his prayer with) their prayer, he will consider his prayer inferior to theirs, and similarly his fasting inferior to theirs, but they will desert Islam (go out of religion) as an arrow goes through the victim's body (games etc) in which case if its Nasl is examined nothing will be seen thereon, and if its Nady is examined, nothing will be seen thereon, and if its Qudhadh is examined, nothing will be seen thereon, for the arrow has gone out too fast even for the excretions and blood to smear over it.
Such people will come out at the time of difference among the (Muslim) people, and the sign by which they will be recognized will be a man whose one of the two hands will look like the breast of a woman or a lump of flesh moving loosely."
Abu Sa`id added, "I testify that I heard that from the Prophet (ﷺ) and also testify that I was with `Ali when `Ali fought against those people.
The man described by the Prophet was searched for among the killed, and was found, and he was exactly as the Prophet (ﷺ) had described him."
Hadith - 190
Narrated Abu Huraira: A man came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! I am ruined!" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Waihaka (May Allah be merciful to you) !"
The man said, "I have done sexual intercourse with my wife while fasting in Ramadan." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Manumit a slave." The man said, "I cannot afford that."
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Then fast for two successive months." The man said, "I have no power to do so."
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Then feed sixty poor persons." The man said, "I have nothing (to feed sixty persons)."
Later, a basket full of dates were brought to the Prophet (ﷺ) and he said (to the man), "Take it and give it in charity." The man said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Shall I give it to people other than my family? By Him in Whose Hand my life is, there is nobody poorer than me in the whole city of Medina."
The Prophet (ﷺ) smiled till his premolar teeth became visible, and said, "Take it." Az-Zuhri said (that the Prophet (ﷺ) said), "Wailaka."
Hadith - 191
Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri: A bedouin said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Inform me about the emigration." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Waihaka (May Allah be merciful to you)! The question of emigration is a difficult one. Have you got some camels?" The bedouin said, "Yes."
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Do you pay their Zakat?" He said, "Yes." The Prophet said, "Go on doing like this from beyond the seas, for Allah will not let your deeds go in vain."
Hadith - 192
Narrated Ibn `Umar: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Wailakum" (woe to you) or "waihakum" (May Allah be merciful to you)" - Shu`ba is not sure as to which was the right word - "Do not become disbelievers after me by cutting the necks of one another."
Hadith - 193
Narrated Anas: A bedouin came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! When will The Hour be established?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Wailaka (Woe to you), What have you prepared for it?"
The bedouin said, "I have not prepared anything for it, except that I love Allah and His Apostle." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "You will be with those whom you love."
We (the companions of the Prophet (ﷺ)) said, "And will we too be so?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Yes." So we became very glad on that day.
In the meantime, a slave of Al-Mughira passed by, and he was of the same age as I was. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If this (slave) should live long, he will not reach the geriatric old age, but the Hour will be established."
Hadith - 194
Narrated `Abdullah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Everyone will be with those whom he loves."
Hadith - 195
Narrated `Abdullah bin Mas`ud: A man came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! What do you say about a man who loves some people but cannot catch up with their good deeds?" Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Everyone will be with those whom he loves."
Hadith - 196
Narrated Abu Musa: It was said to the Prophet, "A man may love some people but he cannot catch up with their good deeds?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Everyone will be with those whom he loves."
Hadith - 197
Narrated Anas bin Malik: A man asked the Prophet (ﷺ) "When will the Hour be established, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "What have you prepared for it?"
The man said, "I haven't prepared for it much of prayers or fast or alms, but I love Allah and His Apostle." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "You will be with those whom you love."
Hadith - 198
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said to Ibn Saiyad, "I have hidden something for you in my mind; What is it?" He said, "Ad-Dukh." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Ikhsa."
Hadith - 199
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar: `Umar bin Al-Khattab set out with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and a group of his companions to Ibn Saiyad. They found him playing with the boys in the fort or near the Hillocks of Bani Maghala.
Ibn Saiyad was nearing his puberty at that time, and he did not notice the arrival of the Prophet (ﷺ) till Allah's Apostle stroked him on the back with his hand and said, "Do you testify that I am Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)?"
Ibn Saiyad looked at him and said, "I testify that you are the Apostle of the unlettered ones (illiterates)". Then Ibn Saiyad said to the Prophet, "Do you testify that I am Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)?"
The Prophet denied that, saying, "I believe in Allah and all His Apostles," and then said to Ibn Saiyad, "What do you see?" Ibn Saiyad said, "True people and liars visit me." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "You have been confused as to this matter."
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) added, "I have kept something for you (in my mind)." Ibn Saiyad said, "Ad-Dukh." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Ikhsa (you should be ashamed) for you can not cross your limits."
`Umar said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Allow me to chop off his neck." Allah's Apostle said (to `Umar), "Should this person be him (i.e. Ad-Dajjal) then you cannot over-power him; and should he be someone else, then it will be no use your killing him."
`Abdullah bin `Umar added: Later on, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and Ubai bin Ka`b Al-Ansari (once again) went to the garden in which Ibn Saiyad was present.
When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) entered the garden, he started hiding behind the trunks of the date-palms intending to hear something from Ibn Saiyad before the latter could see him.
Ibn Saiyad was lying on his bed, covered with a velvet sheet from where his murmur were heard. Ibn Saiyad's mother saw the Prophet and said, "O Saf (the nickname of Ibn Saiyad)! Here is Muhammad!" Ibn Saiyad stopped his murmuring.
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If his mother had kept quiet, then I would have learnt more about him."
`Abdullah added: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) stood up before the people (delivering a sermon), and after praising and glorifying Allah as He deserved, he mentioned the Ad-Dajjal saying, "I warn you against him, and there has been no prophet but warned his followers against him.
Noah warned his followers against him, but I am telling you about him something which no prophet has told his people of, and that is: Know that he is blind in one eye whereas Allah is not so."
Hadith - 200
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: When the delegation of `Abdul Qais came to the Prophet, he said, "Welcome, O the delegation who have come! Neither you will have disgrace, nor you will regret."
They said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! We are a group from the tribe of Ar-Rabi`a, and between you and us there is the tribe of Mudar and we cannot come to you except in the sacred months.
So please order us to do something good (religious deeds) so that we may enter Paradise by doing that, and also that we may order our people who are behind us (whom we have left behind at home) to follow it."
He said, "Four and four: Offer prayers perfectly, pay the Zakat, (obligatory charity), fast the month of Ramadan, and give one-fifth of the war booty (in Allah's cause). And do not drink in (containers called) Ad-Dubba, Al-Hantam, An-Naqir and Al-Muzaffat."
Hadith - 201
Narrated Ibn `Umar: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "For every betrayer (perfidious person), a flag will be raised on the Day of Resurrection, and it will be announced (publicly) 'This is the betrayal (perfidy) of so-and-so, the son of so-and-so.'"
Hadith - 202
Narrated Ibn `Umar: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "A flag will be fixed on the Day of Resurrection for every betrayer, and it will be announced (publicly in front of everybody), 'This is the betrayal (perfidy) so-and-so, the son of so-and-so.'"
Hadith - 203
Narrated `Aisha: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'None of you should say "Khabuthat Nafsi", but he is recommended to say "Laqisat Nafsi."'
Hadith - 204
Narrated Sahl: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'None of you should say "Khabuthat Nafsi" but he is recommended to say "Laqisat Nafsi".'
Hadith - 205
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Allah said, 'The offspring of Adam abuse the Dahr (Time), and I am the Dahr; in My Hands are the night and the day.'"
Hadith - 206
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'Don't call the grapes Al-Karm, and don't say "Khaibat ad-Dahri", for Allah is the Dahr.'
Hadith - 207
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "They say Al-Karm (the generous), and in fact Al-Karm is the heart of a believer."
Hadith - 208
Narrated `Ali: I never heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "Let my father and mother be sacrificed for you," except for Sa`d (bin Abi Waqqas). I heard him saying, "Throw! (arrows), Let my father and mother be sacrificed for you!"
(The sub-narrator added, "I think that was in the battle of Uhud").
Hadith - 209
Narrated Anas bin Malik: That he and Abu Talha were coming in the company of the Prophet (towards Medina), while Safiya (the Prophet's wife) was riding behind him on his she-camel.
After they had covered a portion of the way, suddenly the foot of the she-camel slipped and both the Prophet (ﷺ) and the woman (i.e., his wife, Safiya) fell down.
Abu Talha jumped quickly off his camel and came to the Prophet (saying) "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Let Allah sacrifice me for you! Have you received any injury?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "No, but take care of the woman (my wife)."
Abu Talha covered his face with his garment and went towards her and threw his garment over her. Then the woman got up and Abu Talha prepared their she-camel (by tightening its saddle, etc) and both of them (the Prophet (ﷺ) and Safiya) mounted it.
Then all of them proceeded and when they approached near Medina, or saw Medina, the Prophet (ﷺ) said (what means), "We are coming back (to Medina) with repentance, worshiping (our Lord) and celebrating His (our Lord's) praises".
The Prophet (ﷺ) continued repeating these words till he entered the city of Medina.
Hadith - 210
Narrated Jabir: A boy was born for a man among us, and the man named him Al-Qasim. We said to him, "We will not call you Abul-Qasim, nor will we respect you for that." The Prophet (ﷺ) was informed about that and he said, "Name your son `Abdur-Rahman."
Hadith - 211
Narrated Jabir: A man among us begot a boy whom he named Al-Qasim. The people said, "We will not call him (i.e., the father) by that Kuniya (Abul-Qasim) till we ask the Prophet (ﷺ) about it."
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Name yourselves by my name, but do not call (yourselves) by my Kuniya."
Hadith - 212
Narrated Abu Huraira: Abul-Qasim (The Prophet) said, "Name yourselves by my name, but do not call yourselves by my Kuniya."
Hadith - 213
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah: A man among us begot a boy whom he named Al-Qasim. The people said (to him), "We will not call you Abul-Qasim, nor will we please you by calling you so."
The man came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and mentioned that to him. The Prophet (ﷺ) said to him, "Name your son `Abdur-Rahman."
Hadith - 214
Narrated Al-Musaiyab: That his father (Hazn bin Wahb) went to the Prophet (ﷺ) and the Prophet (ﷺ) asked (him), "What is your name?" He replied, "My name is Hazn." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "You are Sahl." Hazn said, "I will not change the name with which my father has named me."
Ibn Al-Musaiyab added: "We have had roughness (in character) ever since." Narrated Al-Musaiyab: On the authority of his father similarly as above.
Hadith - 215
Narrated Sahl: When Al-Mundhir bin Abu Usaid was born, he was brought to the Prophet (ﷺ) who placed him on his thigh. While Abu Usaid was sitting there, the Prophet (ﷺ) was busy with something in his hands so Abu Usaid told someone to take his son from the thigh of the Prophet (ﷺ).
When the Prophet (ﷺ) finished his job (with which he was busy), he said, "Where is the boy?" Abu Usaid replied, "We have sent him home."
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "What is his name?" Abu Usaid said, "(His name is) so-and-so." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "No, his name is Al-Mundhir." So he called him Al-Mundhir from that day.
Hadith - 216
Narrated Abu Huraira: Zainab's original name was "Barrah," but it was said, "By that she is giving herself the prestige of piety." So the Prophet (ﷺ) changed her name to Zainab.
Hadith - 217
Narrated Sa`id bin Al-Musaiyab: That when his grandfather Hazn visited the Prophet (ﷺ), the Prophet (ﷺ) said (to him), "What is your name?" He said, "My name is Hazn." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "But you are Sahl."
He said, "I will not change my name with which my father named me." Ibn Al-Musaiyab added: So we have had roughness (in character) ever since.
Hadith - 218
Narrated Isma`il: I asked Abi `Aufa, "Did you see Ibrahim, the son of the Prophet (ﷺ)?" He said, "Yes, but he died in his early childhood. Had there been a Prophet after Muhammad then his son would have lived, but there is no Prophet after him."
Hadith - 219
Narrated Al-Bara: When Ibrahim (the son of the Prophet) died, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "There is a wet nurse for him in Paradise."
Hadith - 220
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah Al-Ansari: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Name yourselves after me (by my name) but do not call (yourselves) by my Kuniya, for I am Al-Qasim (distributor), and I distribute among you Allah's blessings."
This narration has also come on the authority of Anas that the Prophet (ﷺ) said so.
Hadith - 221
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Name yourselves after me (by my name), but do not call yourselves by my Kuniya, and whoever sees me in a dream, he surely sees me, for Satan cannot impersonate me (appear in my figure).
And whoever intentionally ascribes something to me falsely, he will surely take his place in the (Hell) Fire."
Hadith - 222
Narrated Abu Musa: I got a son and I took him to the Prophet (ﷺ) who named him Ibrahim, and put in his mouth the juice of a date fruit (which be himself had chewed), and invoked for Allah's blessing upon him, and then gave him back to me.
He was the eldest son of Abu Musa.
Hadith - 223
Narrated Al-Mughira bin Shuba: Solar eclipse occurred on the day of Ibrahim's death (the Prophet's son).
Hadith - 224
Narrated Abu Hurairah: When the Prophet (ﷺ) (once) raised his head after bowing [in the Salat (prayer)] he said, "O Allah, save Al-Walid bin Al-Walid and Salama bin Hisham and 'Aiyyash bin Abu Rabi'a and the helpless weak believers of Makkah.
O Allah, be hard on the tribe of Mudar. O Allah, send on them (famine-drought) years like the (famine-drought) years of (the Prophet) Yusuf (Joseph)."
Hadith - 225
Narrated `Aisha (the wife the Prophet): Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "O Aisha! This is Gabriel sending his greetings to you." I said, "Peace and Allah's Mercy be on him."
`Aisha added: The Prophet (ﷺ) used to see things which we used not to see.
Hadith - 226
Narrated Anas: Once Um Sulaim was (with the women who were) in charge of the luggage on a journey, and Anjashah, the slave of the Prophet, was driving their camels (very fast). The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O Anjasha! Drive slowly (the camels) with the glass vessels (i.e., ladies)."
Hadith - 227
Narrated Anas: The Prophet (ﷺ) was the best of all the people in character. I had a brother called Abu `Umar, who I think had been newly weaned.
Whenever he (that child) was brought to the Prophet (ﷺ), the Prophet (ﷺ) used to say, "O Abu `Umar! What did Al-Nughair (nightingale) (do)?" It was a nightingale with which he used to play.
Sometimes the time of the Prayer became due while he (the Prophet) was in our house. He would order that the carpet underneath him be swept and sprayed with water, and then he would stand up (for the prayer) and we would line up behind him, and he would lead us in prayer.
Hadith - 228
Narrated Sahl bin Sa`d: The most beloved names to `Ali was Abu Turab, and he used to be pleased when we called him by it, for none named him Abu Turab (for the first time), but the Prophet.
Once `Ali got angry with (his wife) Fatima and went out (of his house) and slept near a wall in the mosque. The Prophet (ﷺ) came searching for him, and someone said, "He is there, lying near the wall."
The Prophet (ﷺ) came to him while his (`Ali's) back was covered with dust. The Prophet (ﷺ) started removing the dust from his back, saying, "Get up, O Abu Turab."
Hadith - 229
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The most awful name in Allah's sight on the Day of Resurrection will be (that of) a man calling himself Malik Al-Amlak (the king of kings)."
Hadith - 230
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The most awful (meanest) name in Allah's sight." Sufyan said more than once, "The most awful (meanest) name in Allah's sight is (that of) a man calling himself king of kings."
Sufyan said, "Somebody else (i.e. other than Abu Az-Zinad, a sub-narrator) says: What is meant by 'The king of kings' is "Shahan Shah".
Hadith - 231
Narrated Usama bin Zaid: That Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) rode over a donkey covered with a Fadakiya (velvet sheet) and Usama was riding behind him. He was visiting Sa`d bin 'Ubada (who was sick) in the dwelling place of Bani Al-Harith bin Al-Khazraj and this incident happened before the battle of Badr.
They proceeded till they passed by a gathering in which `Abdullah bin Ubai bin Salul was present, and that was before `Abdullah bin Ubai embraced Islam. In that gathering there were Muslims, pagan idolators and Jews, and among the Muslims there was `Abdullah bin Rawaha.
When a cloud of dust raised by (the movement of) the animal covered that gathering, `Abdullah bin Ubai covered his nose with his garment and said, "Do not cover us with dust."
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) greeted them, stopped, dismounted and invited them to Allah (i.e. to embrace Islam) and recited to them the Holy Qur'an.
On that, `Abdullah bin Ubai bin Salul said to him, "O man! There is nothing better than what you say, if it is the truth. So do not trouble us with it in our gatherings, but if somebody comes to you, you can preach to him."
On that, `Abdullah bin Rawaha said, "Yes, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Call on us in our gathering, for we love that." So the Muslims, the pagans and the Jews started abusing one another till they were about to fight with one another.
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) kept on quietening them till all of them became quiet, and then Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) rode his animal and proceeded till he entered upon Sa`d bin 'Ubada.
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "O Sa`d! Didn't you hear what Abu Hubab said?" (meaning `Abdullah bin Ubai), "He said so-and-so."
Sa`d bin Ubada said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Let my father be sacrificed for you! Excuse and forgive him, for by Him Who revealed to you the Book, Allah sent the Truth which was revealed to you at the time when the people of this town had decided to crown him (`Abdullah bin Ubai) as their ruler.
So when Allah had prevented that with the Truth He had given you, he was choked by that, and that caused him to behave in such an impolite manner which you had noticed."
So Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) excused him. (It was the custom of) Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and his companions to excuse the pagans and the people of the scripture (Christians and Jews) as Allah ordered them, and they used to be patient when annoyed (by them).
Allah said: 'You shall certainly hear much that will grieve you from those who received the Scripture before you...and from the pagans (Surah 3: Ayah 186)
He also said: 'Many of the people of the scripture wish that if they could turn you away as disbelievers after you have believed... (Surah 2: Ayah 109)
So Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to apply what Allah had ordered him by excusing them till he was allowed to fight against them.
When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had fought the battle of Badr and Allah killed whomever He killed among the chiefs of the infidels and the nobles of Quraish, and Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and his companions had returned with victory and booty, bringing with them some of the chiefs of the infidels and the nobles of the Quraish as captives.
`Abdullah bin Ubai bin Salul and the pagan idolators who were with him, said, "This matter (Islam) has now brought out its face (triumphed), so give Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) the pledge of allegiance (for embracing Islam.)". Then they became Muslims.
Hadith - 232
Narrated `Abdullah bin Al-Harith bin Naufal: `Abbas bin `Abdul Muttalib said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Did you benefit Abu Talib with anything, as he used to protect and take care of you and used to become angry for you?"
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Yes, he is in a shallow place of Fire. Were it not for me, he would have been in the bottom-most depth of the Fire."
Hadith - 233
Narrated Anas bin Malik: Once the Prophet (ﷺ) was on one of his journeys, and the driver of the camels started chanting (to let the camels go fast). The Prophet (ﷺ) said to him, "(Take care) Drive slowly with the glass vessels, O Anjasha! Waihaka (May Allah be Merciful to you)."
Hadith - 234
Narrated Anas: The Prophet (ﷺ) was on a journey and a slave named Anjasha was chanting (singing) for the camels to let them go fast (while driving). The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O Anjasha, drive slowly (the camels) with the glass vessels!"
Abu Qilaba said, "By the glass vessels' he meant the women (riding the camels).
Hadith - 235
Narrated Anas bin Malik: The Prophet (ﷺ) had a Haad (a camel driver) called Anjasha, and he had a nice voice. The Prophet (ﷺ) said to him, "(Drive) slowly, O Anjasha! Do not break the glass vessels!"
And Qatada said, "(By vessels) he meant the weak women."
Hadith - 236
Narrated Anas bin Malik: There was a state of fear in Medina. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) rode a horse belonging to Abu Talha (in order to see the matter). The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "We could not see anything, and we found that horse like a sea (fast in speed)."
Hadith - 237
Narrated `Aisha: Some people asked Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) about the fore-tellers. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said to them, "They are nothing (i.e., liars)."
The people said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Sometimes they tell something which comes out to be true."
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "That word which comes to be true is what a jinn snatches away by stealing and then pours it in the ear of his fore-teller with a sound similar to the cackle of a hen, and then they add to it one-hundred lies."
Hadith - 238
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah: That he heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "Then there was a pause in the revelation of the Divine Inspiration to me.
Then while I was walking, all of a sudden I heard a voice from the sky, and I raised my sight towards the sky and saw the same angel who had visited me in the cave of Hira', sitting on a chair between the sky and the earth."
Hadith - 239
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: Once I stayed overnight at the house of Maimuna and the Prophet (ﷺ) was there with her.
When it was the last third of the night, or some part of the night, the Prophet (ﷺ) got up looking towards the sky and recited: 'Verily! In the creation of the heavens and the earth, and in the alternation of Night and Day, there are indeed signs for men of understanding.' (Surah 3: Ayah 190)
Hadith - 240
Narrated Abu Musa: That he was in the company of the Prophet (ﷺ) in one of the gardens of Medina and in the hand of the Prophet there was a stick, and he was striking (slowly) the water and the mud with it.
A man came (at the gate of the garden) and asked permission to enter. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Open the gate for him and give him the glad tidings of entering Paradise."
I went, and behold! It was Abu Bakr. So I opened the gate for him and informed him of the glad tidings of entering Paradise.
Then another man came and asked permission to enter. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Open the gate for him and give him the glad tidings of entering Paradise."
Behold! It was `Umar. So I opened the gate for him and gave him the glad tidings of entering Paradise.
Then another man came and asked permission to enter. The Prophet (ﷺ) was sitting in a leaning posture, so he sat up and said, "Open the gate for him and give him the glad tidings of entering Paradise with a calamity which will befall him or which will take place."
I went, and behold! It was `Uthman. So I opened the gate for him and gave him the glad tidings of entering Paradise and also informed him of what the Prophet (ﷺ) had said (about a calamity). `Uthman said, "Allah Alone Whose Help I seek (against that calamity)."
Hadith - 241
Narrated `Ali: We were with the Prophet (ﷺ) in a funeral procession, and he started scraping the ground with a small stick and said, "There is none amongst you but has been assigned a place (either) in Paradise and (or) in the Hell-Fire."
The people said (to him), "Should we not depend upon it?" He said: "Carry on doing (good) deeds, for everybody will find easy such deeds as will lead him to his destined place." He then recited: "As for him who gives (in charity) and keeps his duty to Allah..." (Surah 92: Ayah 5)
Hadith - 242
Narrated Um Salama: (One night) the Prophet (ﷺ) woke up and said, "Subhan Allah! How many treasures have been (disclosed) sent down! And how many afflictions have been descended! Who will go and wake the sleeping lady-occupants up of these dwellings (for praying)?" (He meant by this his wives.)
The Prophet (ﷺ) added, "A well-dressed soul (person) in this world may be naked in the Hereafter."
`Umar said, "I asked the Prophet, 'Have you divorced your wives?' He said, 'No.' I said, "Allahu Akbar."
Hadith - 243
Narrated Safiya bint Huyai: The wife of the Prophet (ﷺ) that she went to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) while he was in I`tikaf (staying in the mosque) during the last ten nights of the month of Ramadan. She spoke to him for an hour (a while) at night and then she got up to return home.
The Prophet (ﷺ) got up to accompany her, and when they reached the gate of the mosque opposite the dwelling place of Um Salama, the wife of the Prophet, two Ansari men passed by, and greeting Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), they quickly went ahead.
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said to them, "Do not be in a hurry. She is Safiya, the daughter of Huyai." They said, "Subhan Allah! O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (how dare we suspect you)." That was a great thing for both of them.
The Prophet (ﷺ) then said, "Satan runs in the body of Adam's son (i.e. man) as his blood circulates in it, and I was afraid that he (Satan) might insert an evil thought in your hearts.
Hadith - 244
Narrated `Abdullah bin Mughaffal Al-Muzani: The Prophet (ﷺ) forbade the throwing of stones (with the thumb and the index or middle finger), and said, "It neither hunts a game nor kills (or hurts) an enemy, but it gouges out an eye or breaks a tooth."
Hadith - 245
Narrated Anas bin Malik: Two men sneezed before the Prophet. The Prophet (ﷺ) said to one of them, "May Allah bestow His Mercy on you," but he did not say that to the other.
On being asked (why), the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "That one praised Allah (at the time of sneezing), while the other did not praise Allah."
Hadith - 246
Narrated Al-Bara: The Prophet (ﷺ) ordered us to do seven (things) and forbade us from seven (other things):
He ordered us to pay a visit to the sick, to follow funeral possessions, to say: "May Allah be merciful to you" to a sneezer, if he says: "Praise be to Allah," to accept invitation (invitation to a wedding banquet), to return greetings, to help the oppressed, and to help others to fulfill their oaths (provided it was not sinful).
And he forbade us from seven (things): to wear golden rings or golden bangles, to wear silk (cloth), Dibaj, Sundus and Mayathir.
Hadith - 247
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Allah likes sneezing and dislikes yawning, so if someone sneezes and then praises Allah, then it is obligatory on every Muslim who heard him, to say: "May Allah be merciful to you (Yarhamuk Allah)."
But as regards yawning, it is from Satan, so one must try one's best to stop it, if one says 'Ha' when yawning, Satan will laugh at him.
Hadith - 248
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'If anyone of you sneezes, he should say "Alhamdulillah" (Praise be to Allah), and his (Muslim) brother or companion should say to him, "Yarhamuk Allah" (May Allah bestow his Mercy on you).
When the latter says "Yarhamuk Allah", the former should say, "Yahdikumullah wa Yuslih balakum" (May Allah give you guidance and improve your condition).'
Hadith - 249
Narrated Anas: Two men sneezed before the Prophet (ﷺ) and he said Tashmit to one of them, while he did not say Tashmit to the other.
So that man said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! You said Tashmit to that fellow but you did not say Tashmit to me." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "That man praised Allah, but you did not praise Allah."
Hadith - 250
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Allah loves sneezing but dislikes yawning; so if anyone of you sneezes and then praises Allah, every Muslim who hears him (praising Allah) has to say Tashmit to him.
But as regards yawning, it is from Satan, so if one of you yawns, he should try his best to stop it, for when anyone of you yawns, Satan laughs at him."