Hadith - 70
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'If Allah loves a person, He calls Gabriel saying: "Allah loves so-and-so; O Gabriel, love him."
Gabriel would love him, and then Gabriel would make an announcement among the residents of the Heaven, "Allah loves so-and-so, therefore, you should love him also."
So, all the residents of the Heavens would love him, and then he is granted the pleasure of the people of the earth.'
Hadith - 71
Narrated Anas bin Malik: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "None will have the sweetness (delight) of Faith (a) till he loves a person and loves him only for Allah's sake, (b) and till it becomes dearer to him to be thrown in the fire than to revert to disbelief (Heathenism) after Allah has brought him out of it, (c) and till Allah and His Apostle become dearer to him than anything else."
Hadith - 72
Narrated `Abdullah bin Zam`a: The Prophet (ﷺ) forbade laughing at a person who passes wind, and said, "How does anyone of you beat his wife as he beats the stallion camel and then he may embrace (sleep with) her?" And Hisham said, "As he beats his slave."
Hadith - 73
Narrated Ibn `Umar: The Prophet (ﷺ) said at Mina, "Do you know what day is today?" They (the people) replied, "Allah and His Apostle know better." He said "Today is 10th of Dhul-Hijja, the sacred (forbidden) day. Do you know what town is this town?"
They (the people) replied, "Allah and His Apostle know better." He said, "This is the (forbidden) Sacred town (Mecca a sanctuary). And do you know which month is this month?"
They (the People) replied, "Allah and His Apostle know better." He said, "This is the Sacred (forbidden) month."
He added, "Allah has made your blood, your properties and your honor Sacred to one another (i.e. Muslims) like the sanctity of this day of yours in this month of yours, in this town of yours."
Hadith - 74
Narrated `Abdullah: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Abusing a Muslim is Fusuq (i.e., an evil-doing), and killing him is Kufr (disbelief)."
Hadith - 75
Narrated Abu Dhar: That he heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "If somebody accuses another of Fusuq (by calling him Fasiq, i.e. a wicked person) or accuses him of Kufr, such an accusation will revert to him (i.e. the accuser) if his companion (the accused) is innocent."
Hadith - 76
Narrated Anas: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was neither a Fahish (one who had a bad tongue) nor a Sabbaba (one who abuses others) and he used to say while admonishing somebody, "What is wrong with him? May dust be on his forehead."
Hadith - 77
Narrated Thabit bin Ad-Dahhak (who was one of the companions who gave the pledge of allegiance to the Prophet (ﷺ) underneath the tree (Al-Hudaibiya)): Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Whoever swears by a religion other than Islam (i.e. if somebody swears by saying that he is a non-Muslim e.g., a Jew or a Christian, etc) in case he is telling a lie, he is really so if his oath is false, and a person is not bound to fulfill a vow about a thing which he does not possess.
And if somebody commits suicide with anything in this world, he will be tortured with that very thing on the Day of Resurrection.
And if somebody curses a believer, then his sin will be as if he murdered him. And whoever accuses a believer of Kufr (disbelief), then it is as if he killed him."
Hadith - 78
Narrated Sulaiman bin Surad: A man from the companions of the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Two men abused each other in front of the Prophet (ﷺ) and one of them became angry, and his anger became so intense that his face became swollen and changed.
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I know a word the saying of which will cause him to relax if he does say it." Then a man went to him and informed him of the statement of the Prophet (ﷺ) and said, "Seek refuge with Allah from Satan."
On that, the angry man said, 'Do you find anything wrong with me? Am I insane? Go away.'"
Hadith - 79
Narrated 'Ubada bin As-Samit: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) went out to inform the people about the (date of the Night of decree (Al-Qadr). There happened a quarrel between two Muslim men.
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I came out to inform you about the Night of Al-Qadr, but as so-and-so and so-and-so quarrelled, so the news about it had been taken away; and may be it was better for you. So look for it in the ninth, the seventh, or the fifth (of the last ten days of Ramadan)."
Hadith - 80
Narrated Ma'rur: I saw Abu Dhar wearing a Burd (garment) and his slave too was wearing a Burd, so I said (to Abu Dhar), "If you take this (Burda of your slave) and wear it (along with yours), you will have a nice suit (costume) and you may give him another garment."
Abu Dhar said, "There was a quarrel between me and another man whose mother was a non-Arab and I called her bad names. The man mentioned (complained about) me to the Prophet.
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Did you abuse so-and-so?" I said, "Yes." He said, "Did you call his mother bad names?" I said, "Yes". He said, "You still have the traits of (the Pre-Islamic period of) ignorance." I said, "(Do I still have ignorance) even now in my old age?"
He said, "Yes, they (slaves or servants) are your brothers, and Allah has put them under your command.
So the one under whose hand Allah has put his brother, should feed him of what he eats, and give him dresses of what he wears, and should not ask him to do a thing beyond his capacity. And if at all he asks him to do a hard task, he should help him therein."
Hadith - 81
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) led us in the Zuhr prayer, offering only two rak`at and then (finished it) with Taslim, and went to a piece of wood in front of the mosque and put his hand over it.
Abu Bakr and `Umar were also present among the people on that day but dared not talk to him (about his unfinished prayer). And the hasty people went away, wondering, "Has the prayer been shortened?"
Among the people, there was a man whom the Prophet (ﷺ) used to call Dhul-Yadain (the long-armed). He said, "O Allah's Prophet! Have you forgotten or has the prayer been shortened?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Neither have I forgotten, nor has it been shortened."
They (the people) said, "Surely, you have forgotten, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)!" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Dhul-Yadain has told the truth."
So the Prophet (ﷺ) got up and offered other two rak`at and finished his prayer with Taslim.
Then he said Takbir, performed a prostration of ordinary duration or longer, then he raised his head and said Takbir and performed another prostration of ordinary duration or longer and then raised his head and said Takbir (i.e. he performed the two prostrations of Sahu, i.e., forgetfulness)."
Hadith - 82
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) passed by two graves and said, "Both of them (persons in the grave) are being tortured, and they are not being tortured for a major sin.
This one used not to save himself from being soiled with his urine, and the other used to go about with calumnies (among the people to rouse hostilities, e.g., one goes to a person and tells him that so-and-so says about him such-and-such evil things)."
The Prophet (ﷺ) then asked for a green leaf of a date-palm tree, split it into two pieces and planted one on each grave and said, "It is hoped that their punishment may be abated till those two pieces of the leaf get dried."
Hadith - 83
Narrated Abu Usaid As-Sa`idi: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The best family among the Ansar is the Banu An-Najjar."
Hadith - 84
Narrated `Aisha: A man asked permission to enter upon Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Admit him. What an evil brother of his people or a son of his people." But when the man entered, the Prophet (ﷺ) spoke to him in a very polite manner.
(And when that person left) I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! You had said what you had said, yet you spoke to him in a very polite manner?"
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O `Aisha! The worst people are those whom the people desert or leave in order to save themselves from their dirty language or from their transgression."
Hadith - 85
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: Once the Prophet (ﷺ) went through the grave-yards of Medina and heard the voices of two humans who were being tortured in their graves. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "They are being punished, but they are not being punished because of a major sin, yet their sins are great.
One of them used not to save himself from (being soiled with) the urine, and the other used to go about with calumnies (Namima)."
Then the Prophet asked for a green palm tree leaf and split it into two pieces and placed one piece on each grave, saying, "I hope that their punishment may be abated as long as these pieces of the leaf are not dried."
Hadith - 86
Narrated Hudhaifa: I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "A Qattat will not enter Paradise."
Hadith - 87
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Whoever does not give up false statements (i.e. telling lies), and evil deeds, and speaking bad words to others, Allah is not in need of his (fasting) leaving his food and drink."
Hadith - 88
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The worst people in the Sight of Allah on the Day of Resurrection will be the double faced people who appear to some people with one face and to other people with another face."
Hadith - 89
Narrated Ibn Mas`ud: Once Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) divided and distributed (the war booty). An Ansar man said, "By Allah! Muhammad, by this distribution, did not intend to please Allah."
So I came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and informed him about it whereupon his face became changed with anger and he said, "May Allah bestow His Mercy on Moses for he was hurt with more than this, yet he remained patient."
Hadith - 90
Narrated Abu Musa: The Prophet (ﷺ) heard a man praising another man and he was exaggerating in his praise. The Prophet (ﷺ) said (to him), "You have destroyed (or cut) the back of the man."
Hadith - 91
Narrated Abu Bakra: A man was mentioned before the Prophet (ﷺ) and another man praised him greatly. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "May Allah's Mercy be on you! You have cut the neck of your friend."
The Prophet (ﷺ) repeated this sentence many times and said, "If it is indispensable for anyone of you to praise someone, then he should say, 'I think that he is so-and-so," if he really thinks that he is such. Allah is the One Who will take his accounts (as He knows his reality) and no-one can sanctify anybody before Allah."
(Khalid said, "Woe to you," instead of "Allah's Mercy be on you").
Hadith - 92
Narrated Salim: That his father said; "When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) mentioned what he mentioned about (the hanging of) the Izar (waist sheet), Abu Bakr said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! My Izar slackens on one side (without my intention)."
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "You are not among those (who, out of pride) drag their Izars behind them."
Hadith - 93
Narrated `Aisha: The Prophet (ﷺ) continued for such-and-such period imagining that he had slept (had sexual relations) with his wives, and in fact he did not.
One day he said, to me, 'O `Aisha! Allah has instructed me regarding a matter about which I had asked Him. There came to me two men, one of them sat near my feet and the other near my head.
The one near my feet, asked the one near my head (pointing at me), "What is wrong with this man?" The latter replied, "He is under the effect of magic." The first one asked, "Who had worked magic on him?" The other replied, "Labid bin Asam."
The first one asked, "What material (did he use)?" The other replied, "The skin of the pollen of a male date tree with a comb and the hair stuck to it, kept under a stone in the well of Dharwan."
Then the Prophet (ﷺ) went to that well and said, "This is the same well which was shown to me in the dream. The tops of its date-palm trees look like the heads of the devils, and its water looks like the Henna infusion."
Then the Prophet (ﷺ) ordered that those things be taken out. I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Won't you disclose (the magic object)?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Allah has cured me and I hate to circulate the evil among the people."
`Aisha added, "(The magician) Labid bin Asam was a man from Bani Zuraiq, an ally of the Jews."
Hadith - 94
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Beware of suspicion, for suspicion is the worst of false tales; and do not look for the others' faults and do not spy, and do not be jealous of one another, and do not desert (cut your relation with) one another, and do not hate one another; and O Allah's worshipers! Be brothers (as Allah has ordered you)."
Hadith - 95
Narrated Anas bin Malik: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Do not hate one another, and do not be jealous of one another, and do not desert each other, and O Allah's worshipers! Be brothers.
Lo! It is not permissible for any Muslim to desert (not talk to) his brother (Muslim) for more than three days."
Hadith - 96
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Beware of suspicion, for suspicion is the worst of false tales. And do not look for the others' faults, and do not do spying on one another, and do not practice Najsh, and do not be jealous of one another and do not hate one another, and do not desert (stop talking to) one another.
And O Allah's worshipers! Be brothers."
Hadith - 97
Narrated `Aisha: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I do not think that so-and-so and so-and-so know anything of our religion."
(And Al-Laith said, "These two persons were among the hypocrites").
Hadith - 98
Narrated Al-Laith: `Aisha said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) entered upon me one day and said, 'O `Aisha! I do not think that so-and-so and so-and-so know anything of our religion which we follow.'"
Hadith - 99
Narrated Abu Huraira: I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "All the sins of my followers will be forgiven except those of the Mujahirin (those who commit a sin openly or disclose their sins to the people).
An example of such disclosure is that a person commits a sin at night and though Allah screens it from the public, then he comes in the morning, and says, 'O so-and-so, I did such-and-such (evil) deed yesterday,' though he spent his night screened by his Lord (none knowing about his sin) and in the morning he removes Allah's screen from himself."
Hadith - 100
Narrated Safwan bin Muhriz: A man asked Ibn `Umar, "What did you hear Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying regarding An-Najwa (secret talk between Allah and His believing worshipper on the Day of Judgment)?"
He said, "(The Prophet (ﷺ) said), "One of you will come close to his Lord till He will shelter him in His screen and say: 'Did you commit such-and-such sin?' He will say, 'Yes.'
Then Allah will say: 'Did you commit such-and-such sin?' He will say, 'Yes.'
So Allah will make him confess (all his sins) and He will say, 'I screened them (your sins) for you in the world, and today I forgive them for you.'"
Hadith - 101
Narrated Haritha bin Wahb Al-Khuzai: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Shall I inform you about the people of Paradise? They comprise every obscure unimportant humble person, and if he takes Allah's Oath that he will do that thing, Allah will fulfill his oath (by doing that).
Shall I inform you about the people of the Fire? They comprise every cruel, violent, proud and conceited person."
Hadith - 102
Anas bin Malik said, "Any of the female slaves of Medina could take hold of the hand of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and take him wherever she wished."
Hadith - 103
Narrated `Aisha (the wife of the Prophet): That she was told that `Abdullah bin Az-Zubair (on hearing that she was selling or giving something as a gift) said, "By Allah, if `Aisha does not give up this, I will declare her incompetent to dispose of her wealth."
I said, "Did he (`Abdullah bin Az-Zubair) say so?" They (people) said, "Yes." `Aisha said, "I vow to Allah that I will never speak to Ibn Az-Zubair."
When this desertion lasted long, `Abdullah bin Az-Zubair sought intercession with her, but she said, "By Allah, I will not accept the intercession of anyone for him, and will not commit a sin by breaking my vow."
When this state of affairs was prolonged on Ibn Az-Zubair (he felt it hard on him), he said to Al-Miswar bin Makhrama and `Abdur-Rahman bin Al-Aswad bin 'Abu Yaghuth, who were from the tribe of Bani Zuhra, "I beseech you, by Allah, to let me enter upon `Aisha, for it is unlawful for her to vow to cut the relation with me."
So Al-Miswar and `Abdur-Rahman, wrapping their sheets around themselves, asked `Aisha's permission saying, "Peace and Allah's Mercy and Blessings be upon you! Shall we come in?" `Aisha said, "Come in." They said, "All of us?" She said, "Yes, come in all of you," not knowing that Ibn Az-Zubair was also with them.
So when they entered, Ibn Az-Zubair entered the screened place and got hold of `Aisha and started requesting her to excuse him, and wept. Al-Miswar and `Abdur Rahman also started requesting her to speak to him and to accept his repentance.
They said (to her), "The Prophet (ﷺ) forbade what you know of deserting (not speaking to your Muslim Brethren), for it is unlawful for any Muslim not to talk to his brother for more than three nights (days)."
So when they increased their reminding her (of the superiority of having good relation with Kith and kin, and of excusing others' sins), and brought her down to a critical situation, she started reminding them, and wept, saying, "I have made a vow, and (the question of) vow is a difficult one."
They (Al-Miswar and `Abdur-Rahman) persisted in their appeal till she spoke with `Abdullah bin Az-Zubair and she manumitted forty slaves as an expiation for her vow.
Later on, whenever she remembered her vow, she used to weep so much that her veil used to become wet with her tears.
Hadith - 104
Narrated Anas bin Malik: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Do not hate one another, nor be jealous of one another; and do not desert one another, but O Allah's worshipers! Be Brothers!
And it is unlawful for a Muslim to desert his brother Muslim (and not to talk to him) for more than three nights."
Hadith - 105
Narrated Abu Aiyub Al-Ansari: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "It is not lawful for a man to desert his brother Muslim for more than three nights.
(It is unlawful for them that) when they meet, one of them turns his face away from the other, and the other turns his face from the former, and the better of the two will be the one who greets the other first."
Hadith - 106
Narrated `Aisha: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "I know whether you are angry or pleased." I said, "How do you know that, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)?"
He said, "When you are pleased, you say, "Yes, by the Lord of Muhammad,' but when you are angry, you say, 'No, by the Lord of Abraham!'" I said, "Yes, I do not leave, except your name."
Hadith - 107
Narrated `Aisha (the wife of the Prophet): "I do not remember my parents believing in any religion other than the Religion (of Islam), and our being visited by Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) in the morning and in the evening.
One day, while we were sitting in the house of Abu Bakr (my father) at noon, someone said, 'This is Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) coming at an hour at which he never used to visit us.'
Abu Bakr said, 'There must be something very urgent that has brought him at this hour.' The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'I have been allowed to go out (of Mecca) to migrate.'"
Hadith - 108
Narrated Anas bin Malik: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) visited a household among the Ansars, and he took a meal with them.
When he intended to leave, he asked for a place in that house for him to pray, so a mat sprinkled with water was put and he offered prayer over it, and invoked for Allah's Blessing upon them (his hosts).
Hadith - 109
Narrated `Abdullah: `Umar saw a silken cloak over a man (for sale) so he took it to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said, 'O Allah's Apostle! Buy this and wear it when the delegate come to you.' He said, 'The silk is worn by one who will have no share (in the Here-after).'
Some time passed after this event, and then the Prophet (ﷺ) sent a (similar) cloak to him. `Umar brought that cloak back to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said, 'You have sent this to me, and you said about a similar one what you said?'
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'I have sent it to you so that you may get money by selling it.'
Because of this, Ibn `Umar used to hate the silken markings on the garments.
Hadith - 110
Narrated Anas: When `Abdur-Rahman came to us, the Prophet (ﷺ) established a bond of brotherhood between him and Sa`d bin Ar-Rabi`. Once the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "As you (O `Abdur-Rahman) have married, give a wedding banquet even if with one sheep."
Hadith - 111
Narrated `Asim: I said to Anas bin Malik, "Did it reach you that the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "There is no treaty of brotherhood in Islam?" Anas said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) made a treaty (of brotherhood) between the Ansar and the Quraish in my home."
Hadith - 112
Narrated `Aisha: Rifa`a Al-Qurazi divorced his wife irrevocably (i.e. that divorce was the final). Later on, `Abdur-Rahman bin Az-Zubair married her after him.
She came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! I was Rifa`a's wife and he divorced me thrice, and then I was married to `Abdur-Rahman bin Az-Zubair, who, by Allah has nothing with him except something like this fringe, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)," showing a fringe she had taken from her covering sheet.
Abu Bakr was sitting with the Prophet (ﷺ) while Khalid Ibn Sa`id bin Al-As was sitting at the gate of the room waiting for admission. Khalid started calling Abu Bakr, "O Abu Bakr! Why don't you reprove this lady from what she is openly saying before Allah's Apostle?"
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) did nothing except smiling, and then said (to the lady), "Perhaps you want to go back to Rifa`a? No, (it is not possible), unless and until you enjoy the sexual relation with him (`Abdur Rahman), and he enjoys the sexual relation with you."
Hadith - 113
Narrated Sa`d: `Umar bin Al-Khattab asked permission of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) to see him while some Quraishi women were sitting with him and they were asking him to give them more financial support while raising their voices over the voice of the Prophet.
When `Umar asked permission to enter, all of them hurried to screen themselves. The Prophet (ﷺ) admitted `Umar and he entered, while the Prophet (ﷺ) was smiling.
`Umar said, "May Allah always keep you smiling, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Let my father and mother be sacrificed for you!"
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I am astonished at these women who were with me. As soon as they heard your voice, they hastened to screen themselves." `Umar said, "You have more right, that they should be afraid of you, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)!"
And then he (`Umar) turned towards them and said, "O enemies of your souls! You are afraid of me and not of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)?" The women replied, "Yes, for you are sterner and harsher than Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)."
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "O Ibn Al-Khattab! By Him in Whose Hands my life is, whenever Satan sees you taking a way, he follows a way other than yours."
Hadith - 114
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar: When Allah Apostle was in Ta'if (trying to conquer it), he said to his companions, "Tomorrow we will return (to Medina), if Allah wills."
Some of the companions of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "We will not leave till we conquer it." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Therefore, be ready to fight tomorrow." On the following day, they (Muslims) fought fiercely (with the people of Ta'if) and suffered many wounds.
Then Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Tomorrow we will return (to Medina), if Allah wills." His companions kept quiet this time. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) then smiled.
Hadith - 115
Narrated Abu Huraira: A man came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said, "I have been ruined for I have had sexual relation with my wife in Ramadan (while I was fasting)" The Prophet (ﷺ) said (to him), "Manumit a slave." The man said, " I cannot afford that."
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "(Then) fast for two successive months continuously". The man said, "I cannot do that." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "(Then) feed sixty poor persons." The man said, "I have nothing (to feed them with)."
Then a big basket full of dates was brought to the Prophet. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Where is the questioner? Go and give this in charity." The man said, "(Shall I give this in charity) to a poorer person than I? By Allah, there is no family in between these two mountains (of Medina) who are poorer than we."
The Prophet (ﷺ) then smiled till his premolar teeth became visible, and said, "Then (feed) your (family with it)."
Hadith - 116
Narrated Anas bin Malik: While I was going along with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) who was wearing a Najrani Burd (sheet) with a thick border, a bedouin overtook the Prophet (ﷺ) and pulled his Rida' (sheet) forcibly.
I looked at the side of the shoulder of the Prophet (ﷺ) and noticed that the edge of the Rida' had left a mark on it because of the violence of his pull.
The bedouin said, "O Muhammad! Order for me some of Allah's property which you have." The Prophet (ﷺ) turned towards him, (smiled) and ordered that he be given something.
Hadith - 117
Narrated Jarir: The Prophet (ﷺ) did not screen himself from me (had never prevented me from entering upon him) since I embraced Islam, and whenever he saw me, he would receive me with a smile.
Once I told him that I could not sit firm on horses. He stroked me on the chest with his hand, and said, "O Allah! Make him firm, and make him a guiding and a rightly guided man."
Hadith - 118
Narrated Zainab bint Um Salama: Um Sulaim said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Verily Allah is not shy of (telling you) the truth. Is it essential for a woman to take a bath after she had a wet dream (nocturnal sexual discharge)?" He said, "Yes, if she notices discharge."
On that, Um Salama laughed and said, "Does a woman get a (nocturnal sexual) discharge?" He said, "How then does (her) son resemble her (his mother)?"
Hadith - 119
Narrated `Aisha: I never saw the Prophet (ﷺ) laughing to an extent that one could see his palate, but he always used to smile only.
Hadith - 120
Narrated Anas: A man came to the Prophet (ﷺ) on a Friday while he (the Prophet) was delivering a sermon at Medina, and said, "There is lack of rain, so please invoke your Lord to bless us with the rain."
The Prophet (ﷺ) looked at the sky when no cloud could be detected. Then he invoked Allah for rain. Clouds started gathering together and it rained till the Medina valleys started flowing with water. It continued raining till the next Friday.
Then that man (or some other man) stood up while the Prophet (ﷺ) was delivering the Friday sermon, and said, "We are drowned; Please invoke your Lord to withhold it (rain) from us."
The Prophet smiled and said twice or thrice, "O Allah! Please let it rain round about us and not upon us."
The clouds started dispersing over Medina to the right and to the left, and it rained round about Medina and not upon Medina. Allah showed them (the people) the miracle of His Prophet and His response to his invocation.
Hadith - 121
Narrated `Abdullah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Truthfulness leads to righteousness, and righteousness leads to Paradise. And a man keeps on telling the truth until he becomes a truthful person.
Falsehood leads to Al-Fujur (i.e. wickedness, evil-doing), and Al-Fujur (wickedness) leads to the (Hell) Fire, and a man may keep on telling lies till he is written before Allah a liar."
Hadith - 122
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The signs of a hypocrite are three: Whenever he speaks, he tells a lie; and whenever he promises, he breaks his promise; and whenever he is entrusted, he betrays (proves to be dishonest)."
Hadith - 123
Narrated Samura bin Jundub: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I saw (in a dream), two men came to me."
Then the Prophet (ﷺ) narrated the story (saying), "They said, 'The person, the one whose cheek you saw being torn away (from the mouth to the ear) was a liar and used to tell lies, and the people would report those lies on his authority till they spread all over the world.
So he will be punished like that till the Day of Resurrection.'"
Hadith - 124
Narrated Hudhaifa: From among the people, Ibn Um `Abd greatly resembled Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) in solemn gate and good appearance of piety and in calmness and sobriety from the time he goes out of his house till he returns to it.
But we do not know how he behaves with his family when he is alone with them.
Hadith - 125
Narrated Tariq: `Abdullah said, "The best talk is Allah's Book (Qur'an), and the best guidance is the guidance of Muhammad."
Hadith - 126
Narrated Abu Musa: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: "None is more patient than Allah against the harmful saying. He hears from the people they ascribe children to Him, yet He gives them health and (supplies them with) provision."
Hadith - 127
Narrated `Abdullah: The Prophet (ﷺ) divided and distributed something as he used to do for some of his distributions. A man from the Ansar said, "By Allah, in this division the pleasure of Allah has not been intended."
I said, "I will definitely tell this to the Prophet (ﷺ)." So I went to him while he was sitting with his companions and told him of it secretly.
That was hard upon the Prophet (ﷺ) and the color of his face changed, and he became so angry that I wished I had not told him. The Prophet (ﷺ) then said, "Moses was harmed with more than this, yet he remained patient."
Hadith - 128
Narrated `Aisha: The Prophet (ﷺ) did something and allowed his people to do it, but some people refrained from doing it.
When the Prophet (ﷺ) learned of that, he delivered a sermon, and after having sent Praises to Allah, he said, "What is wrong with such people as refrain from doing a thing that I do? By Allah, I know Allah better than they, and I am more afraid of Him than they."
Hadith - 129
Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri: The Prophet (ﷺ) was more shy than a virgin in her separate room. And if he saw a thing which he disliked, we would recognize that (feeling) in his face.
Hadith - 130
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If a man says to his brother, 'O Kafir (disbeliever)!' Then surely one of them is such (i.e., a Kafir)."
Hadith - 131
Narrated 'Abdullah bin 'Umar: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If anyone says to his brother, 'O disbeliever!' Then surely, one of them is such."
Hadith - 132
Narrated Thabit bin Ad-Dahhak: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Whoever swears by a religion other than Islam (i.e. if he swears by saying that he is a non-Muslim in case he is telling a lie), then he is as he says if his oath is false, and whoever commits suicide with something, will be punished with the same thing in the (Hell) fire, and cursing a believer is like murdering him, and whoever accuses a believer of disbelief, then it is as if he had killed him."
Hadith - 133
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah: Mu`adh bin Jabal used to pray with the Prophet (ﷺ) and then go to lead his people in prayer. Once he led the people in prayer and recited Surat-al-Baqara. A man left (the row of the praying people) and offered (light) prayer (separately) and went away.
When Mu`adh came to know about it, he said, "He (that man) is a hypocrite." Later, that man heard what Mu`adh said about him, so he came to the Prophet and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! We are people who work with our own hands and irrigate (our farms) with our camels.
Last night Mu`adh led us in the (night) prayer and he recited Surah-al-Baqara, so I offered my prayer separately, and because of that, he accused me of being a hypocrite."
The Prophet called Mu`adh and said thrice, "O Mu`adh! You are putting the people to trials? Recite 'By the sun and its brightness' (Surah 91) or 'Exalt the name of your Lord, the Most High,' (Surah 87) or the like."
Hadith - 134
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said: 'Whoever amongst you swears, (saying by error) in his oath "By Al-Lat and Al-Uzza", then he should say, "None has the right to be worshipped but Allah."
And whoever says to his companions, "Come let me gamble with you", then he must give something in charity (as an expiation for such a sin).'
Hadith - 135
Narrated Ibn `Umar: That he found `Umar bin Al-Khattab in a group of people and he was swearing by his father.
So Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) called them, saying, "Verily! Allah forbids you to swear by your fathers. If one has to take an oath, he should swear by Allah or otherwise keep quiet."
Hadith - 136
Narrated `Aisha: The Prophet (ﷺ) entered upon me while there was a curtain having pictures (of animals) in the house. His face got red with anger, and then he got hold of the curtain and tore it into pieces.
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Such people as paint these pictures will receive the severest punishment on the Day of Resurrection."
Hadith - 137
Narrated Abu Mas`ud: A man came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said, "I keep away from the morning prayer only because such-and-such person prolongs the prayer when he leads us in it."
The narrator added: I had never seen Allah's Apostle more furious in giving advice than he was on that day. He said, "O people! There are some among you who make others dislike good deeds) cause the others to have aversion (to congregational prayers).
Beware! Whoever among you leads the people in prayer should not prolong it, because among them there are the sick, the old, and the needy."
Hadith - 138
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar: While the Prophet (ﷺ) was praying, he saw sputum (on the wall) of the mosque, in the direction of the Qibla, and so he scraped it off with his hand, and the sign of disgust (was apparent from his face) and then said, "Whenever anyone of you is in prayer, he should not spit in front of him (in prayer) because Allah is in front of him."
Hadith - 139
Narrated Zaid bin Khalid Al-Juhani: A man asked Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) about "Al-Luqata" (a lost fallen purse or a thing picked up by somebody).
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "You should announce it publicly for one year, and then remember and recognize the tying material of its container, and then you can spend it. If its owner came to you, then you should pay him its equivalent."
The man said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! What about a lost sheep?" The Prophet said, "Take it because it is for you, for your brother, or for the wolf."
The man again said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! What about a lost camel?" Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) became very angry and furious and his cheeks became red (or his face became red), and he said, "You have nothing to do with it (the camel), for it has its food and its water container with it till it meets its owner."
Hadith - 140
Narrated Zaid bin Thabit: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) made a small room (with a palm leaf mat). Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) came out (of his house) and prayed in it. Some men came and joined him in his prayer.
Then again the next night they came for the prayer, but Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) delayed and did not come out to them. So they raised their voices and knocked the door with small stones (to draw his attention).
He came out to them in a state of anger, saying, "You are still insisting (on your deed, i.e. Tarawih prayer in the mosque) that I thought that this prayer (Tarawih) might become obligatory on you.
So you people, offer this prayer at your homes, for the best prayer of a person is the one which he offers at home, except the compulsory (congregational) prayer."
Hadith - 141
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The strong is not the one who overcomes the people by his strength, but the strong is the one who controls himself while in anger."
Hadith - 142
Narrated Sulaiman bin Surad: Two men abused each other in front of the Prophet (ﷺ) while we were sitting with him. One of the two abused his companion furiously and his face became red.
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I know a word (sentence) the saying of which will cause him to relax if this man says it. Only if he said, "I seek refuge with Allah from Satan, the outcast.'"
So they said to that (furious) man, 'Don't you hear what the Prophet (ﷺ) is saying?" He said, "I am not mad."
Hadith - 143
Narrated Abu Huraira: A man said to the Prophet (ﷺ), "Advise me! "The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Do not become angry and furious." The man asked (the same) again and again, and the Prophet (ﷺ) said in each case, "Do not become angry and furious."
Hadith - 144
Narrated Abu As-Sawwar Al-Adawi: `Imran bin Husain said: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Haya' (pious shyness from committing religious indiscretions) does not bring anything except good."
Thereupon Bashir bin Ka`b said, 'It is written in the wisdom paper: Haya' leads to solemnity; Haya' leads to tranquility (peace of mind)."'
`Imran said to him, "I am narrating to you the saying of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and you are speaking about your paper (wisdom book)?"
Hadith - 145
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar: The Prophet (ﷺ) passed by a man who was admonishing his brother regarding Haya' (pious shyness from committing religious indiscretions) and was saying, "You are very shy, and I am afraid that might harm you."
On that, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Leave him, for Haya' is (a part) of Faith."
Hadith - 146
Narrated Abu Sa`id: The Prophet (ﷺ) was more shy (from Haya': pious shyness from committing religious indiscretions) than a veiled virgin girl.
Hadith - 147
Narrated Abu Mas`ud: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "One of the sayings of the early Prophets which the people have got is: 'If you don't feel ashamed (from Haya': pious shyness from committing religious indiscretions) do whatever you like.'"
Hadith - 148
Narrated Um Salama: Um Sulaim came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Verily, Allah does not feel shy to tell the truth. If a woman gets a nocturnal sexual discharge (has a wet dream), is it essential for her to take a bath?" He replied, "Yes if she notices a discharge."
Hadith - 149
Narrated Ibn `Umar: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The example of a believer is like a green tree, the leaves of which do not fall."
The people said, "It is such-and-such tree. It is such-and-such tree." I intended to say that it was the date-palm tree, but I was a young boy and felt shy (to answer). The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "It is the date-palm tree."
Ibn `Umar added, "I told that to `Umar who said, 'Had you said it, I would have preferred it to such-and-such a thing.'"
Hadith - 150
Narrated Thabit: That he heard Anas saying, "A woman came to the Prophet (ﷺ) offering herself to him in marriage, saying, "Have you got any interest in me (i.e. would you like to marry me?)"
Anas's daughter said, "How shameless that woman was!" On that, Anas said, "She is better than you, for she presented herself to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (for marriage)."
Hadith - 151
Narrated Abu Musa: That when Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) sent him and Mu`adh bin Jabal to Yemen, he said to them, "Facilitate things for the people (treat the people in the most agreeable way), and do not make things difficult for them, and give them glad tidings, and let them not have aversion (i.e. to make the people hate good deeds) and you should both work in cooperation and mutual understanding, obey each other."
Abu Musa said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! We are in a land in which a drink named Al-Bit' is prepared from honey, and another drink named Al-Mizr is prepared from barley." On that, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "All intoxicants (i.e. all alcoholic drinks) are prohibited."
Hadith - 152
Narrated Anas bin Malik: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Make things easy for the people, and do not make it difficult for them, and make them calm (with glad tidings) and do not repulse (them)."
Hadith - 153
Narrated `Aisha: Whenever Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was given the choice of one of two matters he would choose the easier of the two as long as it was not sinful to do so, but if it was sinful, he would not approach it.
Allah's Apostle never took revenge over anybody for his own sake but (he did) only when Allah's legal bindings were outraged, in which case he would take revenge for Allah's sake."
Hadith - 154
Narrated Al-Azraq bin Qais: We were in the city of Al-Ahwaz on the bank of a river which had dried up. Then Abu Barza Al-Aslami came riding a horse and he started praying and let his horse loose.
The horse ran away, so Abu Barza interrupted his prayer and went after the horse till he caught it and brought it, and then he offered his prayer.
There was a man amongst us who was (from the Khawarij) having a different opinion. He came saying, "Look at this old man! He left his prayer because of a horse."
On that, Abu Barza came to us and said, "Since the time I left Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), nobody has admonished me. My house is very far from this place, and if I had carried on praying and left my horse, I could not have reached my house till night."
Then Abu Barza mentioned that he had been in the company of the Prophet, and that he had seen his leniency.
Hadith - 155
Narrated Abu Huraira: A bedouin urinated in the mosque, and the people rushed to beat him. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) ordered them to leave him and pour a bucket or a tumbler (full) of water over the place where he has passed urine.
The Prophet then said, "You have been sent to make things easy (for the people) and you have not been sent to make things difficult for them."
Hadith - 156
Narrated Anas bin Malik: The Prophet (ﷺ) used to mix with us to the extent that he would say to a younger brother of mine, 'O Aba `Umair! What did the Nughair (a kind of bird) do?"
Hadith - 157
Narrated `Aisha: I used to play with the dolls in the presence of the Prophet, and my girl friends also used to play with me.
When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to enter (my dwelling place) they used to hide themselves, but the Prophet would call them to join and play with me. (The playing with the dolls and similar images is forbidden, but it was allowed for `Aisha at that time, as she was a little girl, not yet reached the age of puberty.)
Hadith - 158
Narrated Aisha: A man asked permission to see the Prophet. He said, "Let him come in; What an evil man of the tribe he is! (Or, What an evil brother of the tribe he is)." But when he entered, the Prophet (ﷺ) spoke to him gently in a polite manner.
I said to him, "O Allah's Apostle! You have said what you have said, then you spoke to him in a very gentle and polite manner?"
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The worst people in the sight of Allah are those whom the people leave (undisturbed) to save themselves from their dirty language."
Hadith - 159
Narrated `Abdullah bin Abu Mulaika: The Prophet (ﷺ) was given a gift of a few silken cloaks with gold buttons. He distributed them amongst some of his companions and put aside one of them for Makhrama. When Makhrama came, the Prophet said, "I kept this for you."
(Aiyub, the sub-narrator held his garment to show how the Prophet (ﷺ) showed the cloak to Makhrama who had something unfavorable about his temper.)