Hadith - 160
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "A believer is not stung twice (by something) out of one and the same hole."
Hadith - 161
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Amr: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) entered upon me and said, "Have I not been informed that you offer prayer all the night and fast the whole day?" I said, "Yes."
He said, "Do not do so. Offer prayer at night and also sleep; Fast for a few days and give up fasting for a few days, because your body has a right on you, and your eye has a right on you, and your guest has a right on you, and your wife has a right on you.
I hope that you will have a long life, and it is sufficient for you to fast for three days a month as the reward of a good deed is multiplied ten times, that means, as if you fasted the whole year."
I insisted (on fasting more) so I was given a hard instruction. I said, "I can do more than that (fasting)." The Prophet said, "Fast three days every week."
But as I insisted (on fasting more) so I was burdened. I said, "I can fast more than that." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Fast as Allah's prophet David used to fast." I said, "How was the fasting of the prophet David?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "One half of a year (i.e. he used to fast on alternate days)."
Hadith - 162
Narrated Abu Shuraih Al-Ka`bi: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Whoever believes in Allah and the Last Day, should serve his guest generously. The guest's reward is: To provide him with a superior type of food for a night and a day and a guest is to be entertained with food for three days, and whatever is offered beyond that, is regarded as something given in charity.
And it is not lawful for a guest to stay with his host for such a long period so as to put him in a critical position."
Narrated Malik: Similarly as above, adding, "Who believes in Allah and the Last Day should talk what is good or keep quiet" (i.e. abstain from dirty and evil talk, and should think before uttering).
Hadith - 163
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Whoever believes in Allah and the Last Day should not hurt his neighbor, and whoever believes in Allah and the Last Day should serve his guest generously, and whoever believes in Allah and the Last Day, should speak what is good or keep silent."
Hadith - 164
Narrated `Uqba bin 'Amir: We said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! You send us out and it happens that we have to stay with such people as do not entertain us. What do you think about it?"
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said to us, "If you stay with some people and they entertain you as they should for a guest, accept is; but if they do not do then you should take from them the right of the guest which they ought to give."
Hadith - 165
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Whoever believes in Allah and the Last Day, should serve his guest generously; and whoever believes in Allah and the Last Day, should unite the bond of kinship (i.e. keep good relation with his kith and kin); and whoever believes in Allah and the Last Day, should talk what is good or keep quiet."
Hadith - 166
Narrated Abu Juhaifa: The Prophet (ﷺ) established a bond of brotherhood between Salman and Abu Darda'. Salman paid a visit to Abu ad-Darda and found Um Ad-Darda' dressed in shabby clothes and asked her why she was in that state?" She replied, "Your brother, Abu Ad-Darda is not interested in the luxuries of this world."
In the meantime Abu Ad-Darda came and prepared a meal for him (Salman), and said to him, "(Please) eat for I am fasting." Salman said, "I am not going to eat, unless you eat." So Abu Ad-Darda' ate.
When it was night, Abu Ad-Darda' got up (for the night prayer). Salman said (to him), "Sleep," and he slept. Again Abu Ad-Darda' got up (for the prayer), and Salman said (to him), "Sleep."
When it was the last part of the night, Salman said to him, "Get up now (for the prayer)." So both of them offered their prayers and Salman said to Abu Ad-Darda', "Your Lord has a right on you; and your soul has a right on you; and your family has a right on you; so you should give the rights of all those who have a right on you."
Later on Abu Ad-Darda' visited the Prophet (ﷺ) and mentioned that to him. The Prophet, said, "Salman has spoken the truth."
Hadith - 167
Narrated `Abdur-Rahman bin Abu Bakr: Abu Bakr invited a group of people and told me, "Look after your guests." Abu Bakr added, "I am going to visit the Prophet (ﷺ) and you should finish serving them before I return."
`Abdur-Rahman said, "So I went at once and served them with what was available at that time in the house and requested them to eat." They said, "Where is the owner of the house (i.e., Abu Bakr)?" `Abdur-Rahman said, "Take your meal."
They said, "We will not eat till the owner of the house comes." `Abdur-Rahman said, "Accept your meal from us, for if my father comes and finds you not having taken your meal yet, we will be blamed severely by him," but they refused to take their meals.
So I was sure that my father would be angry with me. When he came, I went away (to hide myself) from him. He asked, "What have you done (about the guests)?" They informed him the whole story.
Abu Bakr called, "O `Abdur Rahman!" I kept quiet. He then called again, "O `Abdur-Rahman!" I kept quiet and he called again, "O ignorant (boy)! I beseech you by Allah, if you hear my voice, then come out!"
I came out and said, "Please ask your guests (and do not be angry with me)." They said, "He has told the truth; he brought the meal to us."
He said, "As you have been waiting for me, by Allah, I will not eat of it tonight." They said, "By Allah, we will not eat of it till you eat of it." He said, "I have never seen a night like this night in evil. What is wrong with you? Why don't you accept your meals of hospitality from us?" (He said to me), "Bring your meal."
I brought it to him, and he put his hand in it, saying, "In the name of Allah. The first (state of fury) was because of Satan." So Abu Bakr ate and so did his guests.
Hadith - 168
Narrated `Abdur-Rahman bin Abu Bakr: Abu Bakr came with a guest or some guests, but he stayed late at night with the Prophet (ﷺ) and when he came, my mother said (to him), "Have you been detained from your guest or guests tonight?"
He said, "Haven't you served the supper to them?" She replied, "We presented the meal to him (or to them), but he (or they) refused to eat." Abu Bakr became angry, rebuked me and invoked Allah to cause (my) ears to be cut and swore not to eat of it. I hid myself, and he called me, "O ignorant (boy)!"
Abu Bakr's wife swore that she would not eat of it and so the guests or the guest swore that they would not eat of it till he ate of it.
Abu Bakr said, "All that happened was from Satan." So he asked for the meals and ate of it, and so did they. Whenever they took a handful of the meal, the meal grew (increased) from underneath more than that mouthful.
He said (to his wife), "O, sister of Bani Firas! What is this?" She said, "O, pleasure of my eyes! The meal is now more than it had been before we started eating."
So they ate of it and sent the rest of that meal to the Prophet. It is said that the Prophet (ﷺ) also ate of it.
Hadith - 169
Narrated Rafi` bin Khadij and Sahl bin Abu Hathma: `Abdullah bin Sahl and Muhaiyisa bin Mas`ud went to Khaibar and they dispersed in the gardens of the date-palm trees. `Abdullah bin Sahl was murdered.
Then `Abdur-Rahman bin Sahl, Huwaiyisa and Muhaiyisa, the two sons of Mas`ud, came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and spoke about the case of their (murdered) friend.
`Abdur-Rahman who was the youngest of them all, started talking. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Let the older (among you) speak first." So they spoke about the case of their (murdered) friend.
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Will fifty of you take an oath whereby you will have the right to receive the blood money of your murdered man," (or said, "...your companion"). They said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! The murder was a thing we did not witness."
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Then the Jews will release you from the oath, if fifty of them (the Jews) should take an oath to contradict your claim."
They said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! They are disbelievers (and they will take a false oath)." Then Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) himself paid the blood money to them.
Hadith - 170
Narrated Ibn `Umar: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Inform me of a tree which resembles a Muslim, giving its fruits at every season by the permission of its Lord, and the leaves of which do not fall."
I thought of the date-palm tree, but I disliked to speak because Abu Bakr and `Umar were present there. When nobody spoke, the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "It is the date-palm tree."
When I came out with my father, I said, "O father! It came to my mind that it was the date-palm tree." He said, "What prevented you from saying it? Had you said it, it would have been more dearer to me than such-and-such a thing (fortune)."
I said, "Nothing prevented me but the fact that neither you nor Abu Bakr spoke, so I disliked to speak (in your presence)."
Hadith - 171
Narrated Ubai bin Ka`b: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Some poetry contains wisdom."
Hadith - 172
Narrated Jundub: While the Prophet (ﷺ) was walking, a stone hit his foot and stumbled and his toe was injured. He then (quoting a poetic verse) said, "You are not more than a toe which has been bathed in blood in Allah's Cause."
Hadith - 173
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The most true words said by a poet were the words of Labid. He said, 'Verily, everything except Allah is perishable.'" And Umaiya bin Abi As-Salt was about to embrace Islam.
Hadith - 174
Narrated Salama bin Al-Akwa: We went out with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) to Khaibar and we travelled during the night. A man amongst the people said to 'Amir bin Al-Akwa', "Won't you let us hear your poetry?"
'Amir was a poet, and so he got down and started (chanting Huda) reciting for the people, poetry that keep pace with the camel's foot steps, saying, "O Allah! Without You we would not have been guided on the right path, neither would we have given in charity, nor would we have prayed.
So please forgive us what we have committed. Let all of us be sacrificed for Your cause and when we meet our enemy, make our feet firm and bestow peace and calmness on us and if they (our enemy) will call us towards an unjust thing we will refuse. The infidels have made a hue and cry to ask others help against us."
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Who is that driver (of the camels)?" They said, "He is 'Amir bin Al-Akwa."' He said, "May Allah bestow His mercy on him."
A man among the people said, Has Martyrdom been granted to him, O Allah's Prophet! Would that you let us enjoy his company longer."
We reached (the people of) Khaibar and besieged them till we were stricken with severe hunger but Allah helped the Muslims conquer Khaibar.
In the evening of its conquest the people made many fires. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) asked, "What are those fires? For what are you making fires?" They said, "For cooking meat." He asked, "What kind of meat?" They said, "Donkeys' meat."
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Throw away the meat and break the cooking pots." A man said, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Shall we throw away the meat and wash the cooking pots?" He said, "You can do that too."
When the army files aligned in rows (for the battle), 'Amir's sword was a short one, and while attacking a Jew with it in order to hit him, the sharp edge of the sword turned back and hit 'Amir's knee and caused him to die.
When the Muslims returned (from the battle), Salama said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saw me pale and said, 'What is wrong with you?'" I said, "Let my parents be sacrificed for you! The people claim that all the deeds of Amir have been annulled."
The Prophet (ﷺ) asked, "Who said so?" I replied, "So-and-so and so-and-so, and Usaid bin Al-Hudair Al-Ansari said, 'Whoever says so is telling a lie. Verily, 'Amir will have double reward."'
(While speaking) the Prophet (ﷺ) put two of his fingers together to indicate that, and added, "He was really a hard-working man and a Mujahid (devout fighter in Allah's Cause) and rarely have there lived in it (i.e., Medina or the battle-field) an Arab like him."
Hadith - 175
Narrated Anas bin Malik: The Prophet (ﷺ) came to some of his wives among whom there was Um Sulaim, and said, "May Allah be merciful to you, O Anjasha! Drive the camels slowly, as they are carrying glass vessels!"
Abu Qilaba said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) said a sentence (i.e. the above metaphor) which, had anyone of you said it, you would have admonished him for it."
Hadith - 176
Narrated `Aisha: Hassan bin Thabit asked the permission of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) to lampoon the pagans (in verse). Allah's Apostle said, "What about my fore-fathers (ancestry)?" Hassan said (to the Prophet) "I will take you out of them as a hair is taken out of dough."
Narrated Hisham bin `Urwa that his father said, "I called Hassan with bad names in front of `Aisha." She said, "Don't call him with bad names because he used to defend Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (against the pagans)."
Hadith - 177
Narrated Al-Haitham bin Abu Sinan: That he heard Abu Huraira in his narration, mentioning that the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "A Muslim brother of yours who does not say dirty words," and by that he meant Ibn Rawaha, "said (in verse): 'We have Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) with us who recites the Holy Qur'an in the early morning time.
He gave us guidance and light while we were blind and astray, so our hearts are sure that whatever he says will certainly happen. He does not touch his bed at night, being busy in worshipping Allah while the pagans are sound asleep in their beds.'"
Hadith - 178
Narrated Abu Salama bin `Abdur-Rahman bin `Auf: That he heard Hassan bin Thabit Al-Ansari asking the witness of Abu Huraira, saying, "O Abu Huraira! I beseech you by Allah (to tell me).
Did you hear Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying' 'O Hassan! Reply on behalf of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). O Allah ! Support him (Hassan) with the Holy Spirit (Gabriel).'?" Abu Huraira said, "Yes."
Hadith - 179
Narrated Al-Bara: The Prophet (ﷺ) said to Hassan, "Lampoon them (the pagans) in verse, and Gabriel is with you."
Hadith - 180
Narrated Ibn `Umar: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "It is better for a man to fill the inside of his body with pus than to fill it with poetry."
Hadith - 181
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ); said, "It is better for anyone of you that the inside of his body be filled with pus which may consume his body, than it be filled with poetry."
Hadith - 182
Narrated `Aisha: Aflah, the brother of Abu Al-Qu'ais, asked my permission to enter after the verses of Al-Hijab (veiling the ladies) was revealed, and I said, "By Allah, I will not admit him unless I take permission of Allah's Apostle, for it was not the brother of Al-Qu'ais who had suckled me, but it was the wife of Al-Qu'ais who had suckled me."
Then Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) entered upon me, and I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! The man has not nursed me but his wife has nursed me."
He said, "Admit him because he is your uncle (not from blood relation, but because you have been nursed by his wife), Taribat Yaminuki."
`Urwa said, "Because of this reason, 'Aisha used to say: Foster suckling relations render all those things (marriages etc) illegal which are illegal because of the corresponding blood relations."
Hadith - 183
Narrated `Aisha: The Prophet (ﷺ) intended to return home after the performance of the Hajj, and he saw Safiya standing at the entrance of her tent, depressed and sad because she got her menses.
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Aqra Halqa! - An expression used in the Quraish dialect - "You will detain us."
The Prophet (ﷺ) then asked (her), "Did you perform the Tawaf Al-Ifada on the Day of Sacrifice (10th of Dhul-Hijja)?" She said, "Yes." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Then you can leave (with us)."
Hadith - 184
Narrated Um Hani (the daughter of Abu Talib): I visited Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) in the year of the Conquest of Mecca and found him taking a bath, and his daughter, Fatima was screening him.
When I greeted him, he said, "Who is it?" I replied, "I am Um Hani, the daughter of Abu Talib." He said, "Welcome, O Um Hani!"
When the Prophet (ﷺ) had finished his bath, he stood up and offered eight rak`at of prayer while he was wrapped in a single garment.
When he had finished his prayer, I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! My maternal brother assumes (or claims) that he will murder some man whom I have given shelter, i.e., so-and-so bin Hubaira."
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "O Um Hani! We shelter him whom you have sheltered." Um Hani added, "That happened in the forenoon."
Hadith - 185
Narrated Anas: The Prophet (ﷺ) saw a man driving a Badana (a camel for sacrifice) and said (to him), "Ride it." The man said, "It is a Badana." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Ride on it." The man said, "It is a Badana." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Ride on it, woe to you."
Hadith - 186
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saw a man driving a Badana (a camel for sacrifice) and said to him, "Ride on it." The man said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! It is a Badana." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Ride on it, woe to you!" on the second or third time.
Hadith - 187
Narrated Anas bin Malik: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was on a journey and he had a black slave called Anjasha, and he was driving the camels (very fast, and there were women riding on those camels).
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Waihaka (May Allah be merciful to you), O Anjasha! Drive slowly (the camels) with the glass vessels (women)."
Hadith - 188
Narrated Abu Bakra: A man praised another man in front of the Prophet. The Prophet (ﷺ) said thrice, "Wailaka (Woe on you)! You have cut the neck of your brother!"
The Prophet (ﷺ) added, "If it is indispensable for anyone of you to praise a person, then he should say, 'I think that such-and-such person (is so-and-so), and Allah is the one who will take his accounts (as He knows his reality) and none can sanctify anybody before Allah (and that only if he knows well about that person).'"
Hadith - 189
Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri: While the Prophet (ﷺ) was distributing (war booty etc) one day, Dhul Khuwaisira, a man from the tribe of Bani Tamim, said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Act justly."
The Prophets said, "Woe to you! Who else would act justly if I did not act justly?" `Umar said (to the Prophet (ﷺ)), "Allow me to chop his neck off."
The Prophet said, "No, for he has companions (who are apparently so pious that) if anyone of (you compares his prayer with) their prayer, he will consider his prayer inferior to theirs, and similarly his fasting inferior to theirs, but they will desert Islam (go out of religion) as an arrow goes through the victim's body (games etc) in which case if its Nasl is examined nothing will be seen thereon, and if its Nady is examined, nothing will be seen thereon, and if its Qudhadh is examined, nothing will be seen thereon, for the arrow has gone out too fast even for the excretions and blood to smear over it.
Such people will come out at the time of difference among the (Muslim) people, and the sign by which they will be recognized will be a man whose one of the two hands will look like the breast of a woman or a lump of flesh moving loosely."
Abu Sa`id added, "I testify that I heard that from the Prophet (ﷺ) and also testify that I was with `Ali when `Ali fought against those people.
The man described by the Prophet was searched for among the killed, and was found, and he was exactly as the Prophet (ﷺ) had described him."
Hadith - 190
Narrated Abu Huraira: A man came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! I am ruined!" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Waihaka (May Allah be merciful to you) !"
The man said, "I have done sexual intercourse with my wife while fasting in Ramadan." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Manumit a slave." The man said, "I cannot afford that."
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Then fast for two successive months." The man said, "I have no power to do so."
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Then feed sixty poor persons." The man said, "I have nothing (to feed sixty persons)."
Later, a basket full of dates were brought to the Prophet (ﷺ) and he said (to the man), "Take it and give it in charity." The man said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Shall I give it to people other than my family? By Him in Whose Hand my life is, there is nobody poorer than me in the whole city of Medina."
The Prophet (ﷺ) smiled till his premolar teeth became visible, and said, "Take it." Az-Zuhri said (that the Prophet (ﷺ) said), "Wailaka."
Hadith - 191
Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri: A bedouin said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Inform me about the emigration." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Waihaka (May Allah be merciful to you)! The question of emigration is a difficult one. Have you got some camels?" The bedouin said, "Yes."
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Do you pay their Zakat?" He said, "Yes." The Prophet said, "Go on doing like this from beyond the seas, for Allah will not let your deeds go in vain."
Hadith - 192
Narrated Ibn `Umar: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Wailakum" (woe to you) or "waihakum" (May Allah be merciful to you)" - Shu`ba is not sure as to which was the right word - "Do not become disbelievers after me by cutting the necks of one another."
Hadith - 193
Narrated Anas: A bedouin came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! When will The Hour be established?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Wailaka (Woe to you), What have you prepared for it?"
The bedouin said, "I have not prepared anything for it, except that I love Allah and His Apostle." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "You will be with those whom you love."
We (the companions of the Prophet (ﷺ)) said, "And will we too be so?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Yes." So we became very glad on that day.
In the meantime, a slave of Al-Mughira passed by, and he was of the same age as I was. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If this (slave) should live long, he will not reach the geriatric old age, but the Hour will be established."
Hadith - 194
Narrated `Abdullah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Everyone will be with those whom he loves."
Hadith - 195
Narrated `Abdullah bin Mas`ud: A man came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! What do you say about a man who loves some people but cannot catch up with their good deeds?" Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Everyone will be with those whom he loves."
Hadith - 196
Narrated Abu Musa: It was said to the Prophet, "A man may love some people but he cannot catch up with their good deeds?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Everyone will be with those whom he loves."
Hadith - 197
Narrated Anas bin Malik: A man asked the Prophet (ﷺ) "When will the Hour be established, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "What have you prepared for it?"
The man said, "I haven't prepared for it much of prayers or fast or alms, but I love Allah and His Apostle." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "You will be with those whom you love."
Hadith - 198
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said to Ibn Saiyad, "I have hidden something for you in my mind; What is it?" He said, "Ad-Dukh." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Ikhsa."
Hadith - 199
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar: `Umar bin Al-Khattab set out with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and a group of his companions to Ibn Saiyad. They found him playing with the boys in the fort or near the Hillocks of Bani Maghala.
Ibn Saiyad was nearing his puberty at that time, and he did not notice the arrival of the Prophet (ﷺ) till Allah's Apostle stroked him on the back with his hand and said, "Do you testify that I am Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)?"
Ibn Saiyad looked at him and said, "I testify that you are the Apostle of the unlettered ones (illiterates)". Then Ibn Saiyad said to the Prophet, "Do you testify that I am Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)?"
The Prophet denied that, saying, "I believe in Allah and all His Apostles," and then said to Ibn Saiyad, "What do you see?" Ibn Saiyad said, "True people and liars visit me." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "You have been confused as to this matter."
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) added, "I have kept something for you (in my mind)." Ibn Saiyad said, "Ad-Dukh." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Ikhsa (you should be ashamed) for you can not cross your limits."
`Umar said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Allow me to chop off his neck." Allah's Apostle said (to `Umar), "Should this person be him (i.e. Ad-Dajjal) then you cannot over-power him; and should he be someone else, then it will be no use your killing him."
`Abdullah bin `Umar added: Later on, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and Ubai bin Ka`b Al-Ansari (once again) went to the garden in which Ibn Saiyad was present.
When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) entered the garden, he started hiding behind the trunks of the date-palms intending to hear something from Ibn Saiyad before the latter could see him.
Ibn Saiyad was lying on his bed, covered with a velvet sheet from where his murmur were heard. Ibn Saiyad's mother saw the Prophet and said, "O Saf (the nickname of Ibn Saiyad)! Here is Muhammad!" Ibn Saiyad stopped his murmuring.
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If his mother had kept quiet, then I would have learnt more about him."
`Abdullah added: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) stood up before the people (delivering a sermon), and after praising and glorifying Allah as He deserved, he mentioned the Ad-Dajjal saying, "I warn you against him, and there has been no prophet but warned his followers against him.
Noah warned his followers against him, but I am telling you about him something which no prophet has told his people of, and that is: Know that he is blind in one eye whereas Allah is not so."
Hadith - 200
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: When the delegation of `Abdul Qais came to the Prophet, he said, "Welcome, O the delegation who have come! Neither you will have disgrace, nor you will regret."
They said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! We are a group from the tribe of Ar-Rabi`a, and between you and us there is the tribe of Mudar and we cannot come to you except in the sacred months.
So please order us to do something good (religious deeds) so that we may enter Paradise by doing that, and also that we may order our people who are behind us (whom we have left behind at home) to follow it."
He said, "Four and four: Offer prayers perfectly, pay the Zakat, (obligatory charity), fast the month of Ramadan, and give one-fifth of the war booty (in Allah's cause). And do not drink in (containers called) Ad-Dubba, Al-Hantam, An-Naqir and Al-Muzaffat."
Hadith - 201
Narrated Ibn `Umar: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "For every betrayer (perfidious person), a flag will be raised on the Day of Resurrection, and it will be announced (publicly) 'This is the betrayal (perfidy) of so-and-so, the son of so-and-so.'"
Hadith - 202
Narrated Ibn `Umar: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "A flag will be fixed on the Day of Resurrection for every betrayer, and it will be announced (publicly in front of everybody), 'This is the betrayal (perfidy) so-and-so, the son of so-and-so.'"
Hadith - 203
Narrated `Aisha: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'None of you should say "Khabuthat Nafsi", but he is recommended to say "Laqisat Nafsi."'
Hadith - 204
Narrated Sahl: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'None of you should say "Khabuthat Nafsi" but he is recommended to say "Laqisat Nafsi".'
Hadith - 205
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Allah said, 'The offspring of Adam abuse the Dahr (Time), and I am the Dahr; in My Hands are the night and the day.'"
Hadith - 206
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'Don't call the grapes Al-Karm, and don't say "Khaibat ad-Dahri", for Allah is the Dahr.'
Hadith - 207
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "They say Al-Karm (the generous), and in fact Al-Karm is the heart of a believer."
Hadith - 208
Narrated `Ali: I never heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "Let my father and mother be sacrificed for you," except for Sa`d (bin Abi Waqqas). I heard him saying, "Throw! (arrows), Let my father and mother be sacrificed for you!"
(The sub-narrator added, "I think that was in the battle of Uhud").
Hadith - 209
Narrated Anas bin Malik: That he and Abu Talha were coming in the company of the Prophet (towards Medina), while Safiya (the Prophet's wife) was riding behind him on his she-camel.
After they had covered a portion of the way, suddenly the foot of the she-camel slipped and both the Prophet (ﷺ) and the woman (i.e., his wife, Safiya) fell down.
Abu Talha jumped quickly off his camel and came to the Prophet (saying) "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Let Allah sacrifice me for you! Have you received any injury?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "No, but take care of the woman (my wife)."
Abu Talha covered his face with his garment and went towards her and threw his garment over her. Then the woman got up and Abu Talha prepared their she-camel (by tightening its saddle, etc) and both of them (the Prophet (ﷺ) and Safiya) mounted it.
Then all of them proceeded and when they approached near Medina, or saw Medina, the Prophet (ﷺ) said (what means), "We are coming back (to Medina) with repentance, worshiping (our Lord) and celebrating His (our Lord's) praises".
The Prophet (ﷺ) continued repeating these words till he entered the city of Medina.
Hadith - 210
Narrated Jabir: A boy was born for a man among us, and the man named him Al-Qasim. We said to him, "We will not call you Abul-Qasim, nor will we respect you for that." The Prophet (ﷺ) was informed about that and he said, "Name your son `Abdur-Rahman."
Hadith - 211
Narrated Jabir: A man among us begot a boy whom he named Al-Qasim. The people said, "We will not call him (i.e., the father) by that Kuniya (Abul-Qasim) till we ask the Prophet (ﷺ) about it."
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Name yourselves by my name, but do not call (yourselves) by my Kuniya."
Hadith - 212
Narrated Abu Huraira: Abul-Qasim (The Prophet) said, "Name yourselves by my name, but do not call yourselves by my Kuniya."
Hadith - 213
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah: A man among us begot a boy whom he named Al-Qasim. The people said (to him), "We will not call you Abul-Qasim, nor will we please you by calling you so."
The man came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and mentioned that to him. The Prophet (ﷺ) said to him, "Name your son `Abdur-Rahman."
Hadith - 214
Narrated Al-Musaiyab: That his father (Hazn bin Wahb) went to the Prophet (ﷺ) and the Prophet (ﷺ) asked (him), "What is your name?" He replied, "My name is Hazn." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "You are Sahl." Hazn said, "I will not change the name with which my father has named me."
Ibn Al-Musaiyab added: "We have had roughness (in character) ever since." Narrated Al-Musaiyab: On the authority of his father similarly as above.
Hadith - 215
Narrated Sahl: When Al-Mundhir bin Abu Usaid was born, he was brought to the Prophet (ﷺ) who placed him on his thigh. While Abu Usaid was sitting there, the Prophet (ﷺ) was busy with something in his hands so Abu Usaid told someone to take his son from the thigh of the Prophet (ﷺ).
When the Prophet (ﷺ) finished his job (with which he was busy), he said, "Where is the boy?" Abu Usaid replied, "We have sent him home."
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "What is his name?" Abu Usaid said, "(His name is) so-and-so." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "No, his name is Al-Mundhir." So he called him Al-Mundhir from that day.
Hadith - 216
Narrated Abu Huraira: Zainab's original name was "Barrah," but it was said, "By that she is giving herself the prestige of piety." So the Prophet (ﷺ) changed her name to Zainab.
Hadith - 217
Narrated Sa`id bin Al-Musaiyab: That when his grandfather Hazn visited the Prophet (ﷺ), the Prophet (ﷺ) said (to him), "What is your name?" He said, "My name is Hazn." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "But you are Sahl."
He said, "I will not change my name with which my father named me." Ibn Al-Musaiyab added: So we have had roughness (in character) ever since.
Hadith - 218
Narrated Isma`il: I asked Abi `Aufa, "Did you see Ibrahim, the son of the Prophet (ﷺ)?" He said, "Yes, but he died in his early childhood. Had there been a Prophet after Muhammad then his son would have lived, but there is no Prophet after him."
Hadith - 219
Narrated Al-Bara: When Ibrahim (the son of the Prophet) died, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "There is a wet nurse for him in Paradise."
Hadith - 220
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah Al-Ansari: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Name yourselves after me (by my name) but do not call (yourselves) by my Kuniya, for I am Al-Qasim (distributor), and I distribute among you Allah's blessings."
This narration has also come on the authority of Anas that the Prophet (ﷺ) said so.
Hadith - 221
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Name yourselves after me (by my name), but do not call yourselves by my Kuniya, and whoever sees me in a dream, he surely sees me, for Satan cannot impersonate me (appear in my figure).
And whoever intentionally ascribes something to me falsely, he will surely take his place in the (Hell) Fire."
Hadith - 222
Narrated Abu Musa: I got a son and I took him to the Prophet (ﷺ) who named him Ibrahim, and put in his mouth the juice of a date fruit (which be himself had chewed), and invoked for Allah's blessing upon him, and then gave him back to me.
He was the eldest son of Abu Musa.
Hadith - 223
Narrated Al-Mughira bin Shuba: Solar eclipse occurred on the day of Ibrahim's death (the Prophet's son).
Hadith - 224
Narrated Abu Hurairah: When the Prophet (ﷺ) (once) raised his head after bowing [in the Salat (prayer)] he said, "O Allah, save Al-Walid bin Al-Walid and Salama bin Hisham and 'Aiyyash bin Abu Rabi'a and the helpless weak believers of Makkah.
O Allah, be hard on the tribe of Mudar. O Allah, send on them (famine-drought) years like the (famine-drought) years of (the Prophet) Yusuf (Joseph)."
Hadith - 225
Narrated `Aisha (the wife the Prophet): Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "O Aisha! This is Gabriel sending his greetings to you." I said, "Peace and Allah's Mercy be on him."
`Aisha added: The Prophet (ﷺ) used to see things which we used not to see.
Hadith - 226
Narrated Anas: Once Um Sulaim was (with the women who were) in charge of the luggage on a journey, and Anjashah, the slave of the Prophet, was driving their camels (very fast). The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O Anjasha! Drive slowly (the camels) with the glass vessels (i.e., ladies)."
Hadith - 227
Narrated Anas: The Prophet (ﷺ) was the best of all the people in character. I had a brother called Abu `Umar, who I think had been newly weaned.
Whenever he (that child) was brought to the Prophet (ﷺ), the Prophet (ﷺ) used to say, "O Abu `Umar! What did Al-Nughair (nightingale) (do)?" It was a nightingale with which he used to play.
Sometimes the time of the Prayer became due while he (the Prophet) was in our house. He would order that the carpet underneath him be swept and sprayed with water, and then he would stand up (for the prayer) and we would line up behind him, and he would lead us in prayer.
Hadith - 228
Narrated Sahl bin Sa`d: The most beloved names to `Ali was Abu Turab, and he used to be pleased when we called him by it, for none named him Abu Turab (for the first time), but the Prophet.
Once `Ali got angry with (his wife) Fatima and went out (of his house) and slept near a wall in the mosque. The Prophet (ﷺ) came searching for him, and someone said, "He is there, lying near the wall."
The Prophet (ﷺ) came to him while his (`Ali's) back was covered with dust. The Prophet (ﷺ) started removing the dust from his back, saying, "Get up, O Abu Turab."
Hadith - 229
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The most awful name in Allah's sight on the Day of Resurrection will be (that of) a man calling himself Malik Al-Amlak (the king of kings)."
Hadith - 230
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The most awful (meanest) name in Allah's sight." Sufyan said more than once, "The most awful (meanest) name in Allah's sight is (that of) a man calling himself king of kings."
Sufyan said, "Somebody else (i.e. other than Abu Az-Zinad, a sub-narrator) says: What is meant by 'The king of kings' is "Shahan Shah".
Hadith - 231
Narrated Usama bin Zaid: That Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) rode over a donkey covered with a Fadakiya (velvet sheet) and Usama was riding behind him. He was visiting Sa`d bin 'Ubada (who was sick) in the dwelling place of Bani Al-Harith bin Al-Khazraj and this incident happened before the battle of Badr.
They proceeded till they passed by a gathering in which `Abdullah bin Ubai bin Salul was present, and that was before `Abdullah bin Ubai embraced Islam. In that gathering there were Muslims, pagan idolators and Jews, and among the Muslims there was `Abdullah bin Rawaha.
When a cloud of dust raised by (the movement of) the animal covered that gathering, `Abdullah bin Ubai covered his nose with his garment and said, "Do not cover us with dust."
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) greeted them, stopped, dismounted and invited them to Allah (i.e. to embrace Islam) and recited to them the Holy Qur'an.
On that, `Abdullah bin Ubai bin Salul said to him, "O man! There is nothing better than what you say, if it is the truth. So do not trouble us with it in our gatherings, but if somebody comes to you, you can preach to him."
On that, `Abdullah bin Rawaha said, "Yes, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Call on us in our gathering, for we love that." So the Muslims, the pagans and the Jews started abusing one another till they were about to fight with one another.
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) kept on quietening them till all of them became quiet, and then Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) rode his animal and proceeded till he entered upon Sa`d bin 'Ubada.
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "O Sa`d! Didn't you hear what Abu Hubab said?" (meaning `Abdullah bin Ubai), "He said so-and-so."
Sa`d bin Ubada said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Let my father be sacrificed for you! Excuse and forgive him, for by Him Who revealed to you the Book, Allah sent the Truth which was revealed to you at the time when the people of this town had decided to crown him (`Abdullah bin Ubai) as their ruler.
So when Allah had prevented that with the Truth He had given you, he was choked by that, and that caused him to behave in such an impolite manner which you had noticed."
So Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) excused him. (It was the custom of) Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and his companions to excuse the pagans and the people of the scripture (Christians and Jews) as Allah ordered them, and they used to be patient when annoyed (by them).
Allah said: 'You shall certainly hear much that will grieve you from those who received the Scripture before you...and from the pagans (Surah 3: Ayah 186)
He also said: 'Many of the people of the scripture wish that if they could turn you away as disbelievers after you have believed... (Surah 2: Ayah 109)
So Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to apply what Allah had ordered him by excusing them till he was allowed to fight against them.
When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had fought the battle of Badr and Allah killed whomever He killed among the chiefs of the infidels and the nobles of Quraish, and Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and his companions had returned with victory and booty, bringing with them some of the chiefs of the infidels and the nobles of the Quraish as captives.
`Abdullah bin Ubai bin Salul and the pagan idolators who were with him, said, "This matter (Islam) has now brought out its face (triumphed), so give Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) the pledge of allegiance (for embracing Islam.)". Then they became Muslims.
Hadith - 232
Narrated `Abdullah bin Al-Harith bin Naufal: `Abbas bin `Abdul Muttalib said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Did you benefit Abu Talib with anything, as he used to protect and take care of you and used to become angry for you?"
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Yes, he is in a shallow place of Fire. Were it not for me, he would have been in the bottom-most depth of the Fire."
Hadith - 233
Narrated Anas bin Malik: Once the Prophet (ﷺ) was on one of his journeys, and the driver of the camels started chanting (to let the camels go fast). The Prophet (ﷺ) said to him, "(Take care) Drive slowly with the glass vessels, O Anjasha! Waihaka (May Allah be Merciful to you)."
Hadith - 234
Narrated Anas: The Prophet (ﷺ) was on a journey and a slave named Anjasha was chanting (singing) for the camels to let them go fast (while driving). The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O Anjasha, drive slowly (the camels) with the glass vessels!"
Abu Qilaba said, "By the glass vessels' he meant the women (riding the camels).
Hadith - 235
Narrated Anas bin Malik: The Prophet (ﷺ) had a Haad (a camel driver) called Anjasha, and he had a nice voice. The Prophet (ﷺ) said to him, "(Drive) slowly, O Anjasha! Do not break the glass vessels!"
And Qatada said, "(By vessels) he meant the weak women."
Hadith - 236
Narrated Anas bin Malik: There was a state of fear in Medina. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) rode a horse belonging to Abu Talha (in order to see the matter). The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "We could not see anything, and we found that horse like a sea (fast in speed)."
Hadith - 237
Narrated `Aisha: Some people asked Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) about the fore-tellers. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said to them, "They are nothing (i.e., liars)."
The people said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Sometimes they tell something which comes out to be true."
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "That word which comes to be true is what a jinn snatches away by stealing and then pours it in the ear of his fore-teller with a sound similar to the cackle of a hen, and then they add to it one-hundred lies."
Hadith - 238
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah: That he heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "Then there was a pause in the revelation of the Divine Inspiration to me.
Then while I was walking, all of a sudden I heard a voice from the sky, and I raised my sight towards the sky and saw the same angel who had visited me in the cave of Hira', sitting on a chair between the sky and the earth."
Hadith - 239
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: Once I stayed overnight at the house of Maimuna and the Prophet (ﷺ) was there with her.
When it was the last third of the night, or some part of the night, the Prophet (ﷺ) got up looking towards the sky and recited: 'Verily! In the creation of the heavens and the earth, and in the alternation of Night and Day, there are indeed signs for men of understanding.' (Surah 3: Ayah 190)
Hadith - 240
Narrated Abu Musa: That he was in the company of the Prophet (ﷺ) in one of the gardens of Medina and in the hand of the Prophet there was a stick, and he was striking (slowly) the water and the mud with it.
A man came (at the gate of the garden) and asked permission to enter. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Open the gate for him and give him the glad tidings of entering Paradise."
I went, and behold! It was Abu Bakr. So I opened the gate for him and informed him of the glad tidings of entering Paradise.
Then another man came and asked permission to enter. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Open the gate for him and give him the glad tidings of entering Paradise."
Behold! It was `Umar. So I opened the gate for him and gave him the glad tidings of entering Paradise.
Then another man came and asked permission to enter. The Prophet (ﷺ) was sitting in a leaning posture, so he sat up and said, "Open the gate for him and give him the glad tidings of entering Paradise with a calamity which will befall him or which will take place."
I went, and behold! It was `Uthman. So I opened the gate for him and gave him the glad tidings of entering Paradise and also informed him of what the Prophet (ﷺ) had said (about a calamity). `Uthman said, "Allah Alone Whose Help I seek (against that calamity)."
Hadith - 241
Narrated `Ali: We were with the Prophet (ﷺ) in a funeral procession, and he started scraping the ground with a small stick and said, "There is none amongst you but has been assigned a place (either) in Paradise and (or) in the Hell-Fire."
The people said (to him), "Should we not depend upon it?" He said: "Carry on doing (good) deeds, for everybody will find easy such deeds as will lead him to his destined place." He then recited: "As for him who gives (in charity) and keeps his duty to Allah..." (Surah 92: Ayah 5)
Hadith - 242
Narrated Um Salama: (One night) the Prophet (ﷺ) woke up and said, "Subhan Allah! How many treasures have been (disclosed) sent down! And how many afflictions have been descended! Who will go and wake the sleeping lady-occupants up of these dwellings (for praying)?" (He meant by this his wives.)
The Prophet (ﷺ) added, "A well-dressed soul (person) in this world may be naked in the Hereafter."
`Umar said, "I asked the Prophet, 'Have you divorced your wives?' He said, 'No.' I said, "Allahu Akbar."
Hadith - 243
Narrated Safiya bint Huyai: The wife of the Prophet (ﷺ) that she went to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) while he was in I`tikaf (staying in the mosque) during the last ten nights of the month of Ramadan. She spoke to him for an hour (a while) at night and then she got up to return home.
The Prophet (ﷺ) got up to accompany her, and when they reached the gate of the mosque opposite the dwelling place of Um Salama, the wife of the Prophet, two Ansari men passed by, and greeting Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), they quickly went ahead.
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said to them, "Do not be in a hurry. She is Safiya, the daughter of Huyai." They said, "Subhan Allah! O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (how dare we suspect you)." That was a great thing for both of them.
The Prophet (ﷺ) then said, "Satan runs in the body of Adam's son (i.e. man) as his blood circulates in it, and I was afraid that he (Satan) might insert an evil thought in your hearts.
Hadith - 244
Narrated `Abdullah bin Mughaffal Al-Muzani: The Prophet (ﷺ) forbade the throwing of stones (with the thumb and the index or middle finger), and said, "It neither hunts a game nor kills (or hurts) an enemy, but it gouges out an eye or breaks a tooth."
Hadith - 245
Narrated Anas bin Malik: Two men sneezed before the Prophet. The Prophet (ﷺ) said to one of them, "May Allah bestow His Mercy on you," but he did not say that to the other.
On being asked (why), the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "That one praised Allah (at the time of sneezing), while the other did not praise Allah."
Hadith - 246
Narrated Al-Bara: The Prophet (ﷺ) ordered us to do seven (things) and forbade us from seven (other things):
He ordered us to pay a visit to the sick, to follow funeral possessions, to say: "May Allah be merciful to you" to a sneezer, if he says: "Praise be to Allah," to accept invitation (invitation to a wedding banquet), to return greetings, to help the oppressed, and to help others to fulfill their oaths (provided it was not sinful).
And he forbade us from seven (things): to wear golden rings or golden bangles, to wear silk (cloth), Dibaj, Sundus and Mayathir.
Hadith - 247
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Allah likes sneezing and dislikes yawning, so if someone sneezes and then praises Allah, then it is obligatory on every Muslim who heard him, to say: "May Allah be merciful to you (Yarhamuk Allah)."
But as regards yawning, it is from Satan, so one must try one's best to stop it, if one says 'Ha' when yawning, Satan will laugh at him.
Hadith - 248
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'If anyone of you sneezes, he should say "Alhamdulillah" (Praise be to Allah), and his (Muslim) brother or companion should say to him, "Yarhamuk Allah" (May Allah bestow his Mercy on you).
When the latter says "Yarhamuk Allah", the former should say, "Yahdikumullah wa Yuslih balakum" (May Allah give you guidance and improve your condition).'
Hadith - 249
Narrated Anas: Two men sneezed before the Prophet (ﷺ) and he said Tashmit to one of them, while he did not say Tashmit to the other.
So that man said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! You said Tashmit to that fellow but you did not say Tashmit to me." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "That man praised Allah, but you did not praise Allah."
Hadith - 250
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Allah loves sneezing but dislikes yawning; so if anyone of you sneezes and then praises Allah, every Muslim who hears him (praising Allah) has to say Tashmit to him.
But as regards yawning, it is from Satan, so if one of you yawns, he should try his best to stop it, for when anyone of you yawns, Satan laughs at him."