Hadith - 36
Narrated Abu Sa`id: The people of (the tribe of) Quraiza agreed upon to accept the verdict of Sa`d. The Prophet (ﷺ) sent for him (Sa`d) and he came. The Prophet (ﷺ) said (to those people), "Get up for your chief or the best among you!"
Sa`d sat beside the Prophet (ﷺ) and the Prophet (ﷺ) said (to him), "These people have agreed to accept your verdict." Sa`d said, "So I give my judgment that their warriors should be killed and their women and children should be taken as captives."
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "You have judged according to the King's (Allah's) judgment."
Hadith - 37
Narrated Qatada: I asked Anas, "Was it a custom of the companions of the Prophet (ﷺ) to shake hands with one another?" He said, "Yes."
Hadith - 38
Narrated `Abdullah bin Hisham: We were in the company of the Prophet (ﷺ) and he was holding the hand of `Umar bin Al-Khattab.
Hadith - 39
Narrated Ibn Mas`ud: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) taught me the Tashah-hud as he taught me a Sura from the Qur'an, while my hand was between his hands.
(Tashah-hud was) All the best compliments and the prayers and the good things are for Allah. Peace and Allah's Mercy and Blessings be on you, O Prophet! Peace be on us and on the pious slaves of Allah.
I testify that none has the right to be worshipped but Allah, and I also testify that Muhammad is Allah's slave and His Apostle.
(We used to recite this in the prayer) during the lifetime of the Prophet (ﷺ), but when he had died, we used to say, "Peace be on the Prophet."
Hadith - 40
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Abbas: `Ali bin Abu Talib came out of the house of the Prophet (ﷺ) during his fatal ailment. The people asked (`Ali), "O Abu Hasan! How is the health of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) this morning?" `Ali said, "This morning he is better, with the grace of Allah."
Al-`Abbas held `Ali by the hand and said, "Don't you see him (about to die)? By Allah, within three days you will be the slave of the stick (i.e., under the command of another ruler).
By Allah, I think that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) will die from his present ailment, for I know the signs of death on the faces of the offspring of `Abdul Muttalib. So let us go to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) to ask him who will take over the Caliphate.
If the authority is given to us, we will know it, and if it is given to somebody else, we will request him to recommend us to him."
`Ali said, "By Allah! If we ask Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) for the rulership and he refuses, then the people will never give it to us. Besides, I will never ask Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) for it."
Hadith - 41
Narrated Mu`adh: While I was a companion rider with the Prophet (ﷺ), he said, "O Mu`adh!" I replied, "Labbaik wa Sa`daik." He repeated this call three times and then said, "Do you know what Allah's Right on His slaves is?" I replied, "No."
He said, "Allah's Right on His slaves is that they should worship Him (Alone) and should not join partners in worship with Him."
He said, "O Mu`adh!" I replied, "Labbaik wa Sa`daik." He said, "Do you know what the right of (Allah's) slaves on Allah is, if they do that (worship Him Alone and join none in His worship)? It is that He will not punish them." (Another chain through Mu'adh).
Hadith - 42
Narrated Abu Dhar: While I was walking with the Prophet (ﷺ) at the Harra of Medina in the evening, the mountain of Uhud appeared before us.
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O Abu Dhar! I would not like to have gold equal to Uhud (mountain) for me, unless nothing of it, not even a single Dinar remains of it with me for more than one day or three days, except that single Dinar which I will keep for repaying debts.
I will spend all of it (the whole amount) among Allah's slaves like this and like this and like this."
The Prophet (ﷺ) pointed out with his hand to illustrate it and then said, "O Abu Dhar!" I replied, "Labbaik wa Sa`daik, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)!"
He said, "Those who have much wealth (in this world) will be the least rewarded (in the Hereafter) except those who do like this and like this (i.e., spend their money in charity)."
Then he ordered me, "Remain at your place and do not leave it, O Abu Dhar, till I come back." He went away till he disappeared from me.
Then I heard a voice and feared that something might have happened to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), and I intended to go (to find out) but I remembered the statement of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) that I should not leave my place, so I kept on waiting (and after a while the Prophet (ﷺ) came), and I said to him, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), I heard a voice and I was afraid that something might have happened to you, but then I remembered your statement and stayed (there)."
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "That was Gabriel who came to me and informed me that whoever among my followers died without joining others in worship with Allah, would enter Paradise."
I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Even if he had committed illegal sexual intercourse and theft?" He said, "Even if he had committed illegal sexual intercourse and theft."
Hadith - 43
Narrated Ibn `Umar: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "A man should not make another man get up from his (the latter's) seat (in a gathering) in order to sit there."
Hadith - 44
Narrated Ibn `Umar: The Prophet (ﷺ) forbade that a man should be made to get up from his seat so that another might sit on it, but one should make room and spread out. Ibn `Umar disliked that a man should get up from his seat and then somebody else sit at his place.
Hadith - 45
Narrated Anas bin Malik: When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) married Zainab bint Jahsh, he invited the people who took their meals and then remained sitting and talking. The Prophet (ﷺ) pretended to be ready to get up, but the people did not get up.
When he noticed that, he got up, and when he had got up, some of those people got up along with him and there remained three (who kept on sitting). Then the Prophet (ﷺ) came back and found those people still sitting. Later on, those people got up and went away.
So I went to the Prophet (ﷺ) and informed him that they had left. The Prophet (ﷺ) came, and entered (his house). I wanted to enter (along with him) but he dropped a curtain between me and him.
Allah then revealed: 'O you who believe! Do not enter the Prophet's Houses until leave is given... (to His statement)... Verily! That shall be an enormity, in Allah's sight.' (Surah 33: Ayah 53)
Hadith - 46
Narrated Ibn `Umar: I saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) in the courtyard of the Ka`ba in the Ihtiba' posture, putting his hand round his legs like this.
Hadith - 47
Narrated Abu Bakra: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Shall I inform you of the biggest of the great sins?" They said, "Yes, O Allah's Apostle!" He said, "To join partners in worship with Allah, and to be undutiful to one's parents."
Hadith - 48
Narrated Bishr: As above adding: The Prophet (ﷺ) was reclining (leaning) and then he sat up saying, "And I warn you against giving a false statement." And he kept on saying that warning so-much-so that we said, "Would that he had stopped."
Hadith - 49
Narrated `Uqba bin Al-Harith: Once the Prophet (ﷺ) offered the `Asr prayer and then he walked quickly and entered his house.
Hadith - 50
Narrated `Aisha: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to offer his prayer (while standing) in the midst of the bed, and I used to lie in front of him between him and the Qibla.
If I had any necessity for getting up and I used to dislike to get up and face him (while he was in prayer), but I would gradually slip away from the bed.
Hadith - 51
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Amr: The news of my fasting was mentioned to the Prophet (ﷺ). So he entered upon me and I put for him a leather cushion stuffed with palm-fibres. The Prophet (ﷺ) sat on the floor and the cushion was between me and him.
He said to me, "Isn't it sufficient for you (that you fast) three days a month?" I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! (I can fast more than this)."
He said, "(You may fast) five days a month." I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! (I can fast more than this)." He said, "(You may fast) seven days." I said, "O Allah's Apostle!"
He said, "Nine." I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)!" He said, "Eleven." I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)!"
He said, "No fasting is superior to the fasting of (the Prophet David (ﷺ)) which was one half of a year, and he used to fast on alternate days."
Hadith - 52
Narrated Ibrahim: 'Alqama went to Sham and came to the mosque and offered a two-rak`at prayer, and invoked Allah: "O Allah! Bless me with a (pious) good companion." So he sat beside Abu Ad-Darda' who asked, "From where are you?" He said, "From the people of Kufa."
Abu Darda' said, "Wasn't there among you the person who keeps the secrets (of the Prophet (ﷺ)) which nobody knew except him (i.e., Hudhaifa (bin Al-Yaman))?
And isn't there among you the person whom Allah gave refuge from Satan through the request (tongue) of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (i.e., `Ammar)?
Isn't there among you the one who used to carry the Siwak and the cushion (or pillows (of the Prophet)) (i.e., Ibn Mas`ud)? How did Ibn Mas`ud use to recite, 'By the night as it conceals (the light)?'" (Surah 92). 'Alqama said, "And by male and female."
Abu Ad-Darda added, "These people continued to argue with me regarding it till they were about to cause me to have doubts, although I heard it from Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)."
Hadith - 53
Narrated Sahl bin Sa`d: We used to have a midday nap and take our meals after the Jumua (prayer).
Hadith - 54
Narrated Sahl bin Sa`d: There was no name dearer to `Ali than his nickname Abu Turab (the father of dust). He used to feel happy whenever he was called by this name.
Once Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) came to the house of Fatima but did not find `Ali in the house. So he asked, "Where is your cousin?" She replied, "There was something (a quarrel) between me and him, whereupon he got angry with me and went out without having a midday nap in my house."
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) asked a person to look for him. That person came, and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! He (Ali) is sleeping in the mosque."
So Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) went there and found him lying. His upper body cover had fallen off to one side of his body, and so he was covered with dust. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) started cleaning the dust from him, saying, "Get up, O Abu Turab! Get up, Abu Turab!"
Hadith - 55
Narrated Thumama: Anas said, "Um Sulaim used to spread a leather sheet for the Prophet (ﷺ) and he used to take a midday nap on that leather sheet at her home."
Anas added, "When the Prophet (ﷺ) had slept, she would take some of his sweat and hair and collect it (the sweat) in a bottle and then mix it with Suk (a kind of perfume) while he was still sleeping."
When the death of Anas bin Malik approached, he advised that some of that Suk be mixed with his Hanut (perfume for embalming the dead body), and it was mixed with his Hanut.
Hadith - 56
Narrated Anas bin Malik: Whenever Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) went to Quba, he used to visit Um Haram bint Milhan who would offer him meals; and she was the wife of 'Ubada bin As-Samit.
One day he went to her house and she offered him a meal, and after that he slept, and then woke up smiling. She (Um Haram) said, "I asked him, 'What makes you laugh, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)?'
He said, 'Some people of my followers were displayed before me as warriors fighting for Allah's Cause and sailing over this sea, kings on thrones,' or said, 'like kings on thrones.' (The narrator, 'Is-haq is in doubt about it.)
I (Um Haram) said, 'O Allah's Apostle! Invoke Allah that He may make me one of them.' He invoked (Allah) for her and then lay his head and slept again and then woke up smiling.
I asked, 'What makes you laugh, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)?' He said, 'Some people of my followers were displayed before me as warriors fighting for Allah's Cause and sailing over this sea, kings on the thrones,' or said, 'like kings on the thrones.'
I (Um Haram) said, 'O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Invoke Allah that He may make me one of them.' He said, 'You will be amongst the first ones.'"
It is said that Um Haram sailed over the sea at the time of Muawiya, and on coming out of the sea, she fell down from her riding animal and died.
Hadith - 57
Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri: The Prophet (ﷺ) forbade two kinds of dresses and two kinds of bargains: Ishtimal As-Samma and Al-Ihtiba in one garment with no part of it covering one's private parts. (The two kinds of bargains were:) Al-Mulamasa and Al-Munabadha.
Hadith - 58
Narrated `Aisha, Mother of the Believers: We, the wives of the Prophet (ﷺ), were all sitting with the Prophet (ﷺ) and none of us had left when Fatima came walking, and by Allah, her gait was very similar to that of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ).
When he saw her, he welcomed her, saying, "Welcome, O my daughter!" Then he made her sit on his right or his left, confided something to her, whereupon she wept bitterly.
When he noticed her sorrow, he confided something else to her for the second time, and she started laughing.
Only I from among the Prophet's wives said to her, "(O Fatima), Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) selected you from among us for the secret talk and still you weep?"
When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) got up (and went away), I asked her, "What did he confide to you?" She said, "I wouldn't disclose the secrets of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)."
But when he died, I asked her, "I beseech you earnestly by what right I have on you to tell me (that secret talk which the Prophet had with you)." She said, "As you ask me now, yes, (I will tell you)."
She informed me, saying, "When he talked to me secretly the first time, he said that Gabriel used to review the Qur'an with him once every year. He added, 'But this year he reviewed it with me twice, and therefore I think that my time of death has approached.
So, be afraid of Allah, and be patient, for I am the best predecessor for you (in the Hereafter).'"
Fatima added, "So I wept as you (`Aisha) witnessed. And when the Prophet (ﷺ) saw me in this sorrowful state, he confided the second secret to me saying, 'O Fatima! Will you not be pleased that you will be chief of all the believing women (or chief of the women of this nation, i.e. my followers?).'"
Hadith - 59
Narrated the uncle of `Abbas bin Tamim: I saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) lying on his back in the mosque and putting one of his legs over the other.
Hadith - 60
Narrated `Abdullah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "When three persons are together, then no two of them should hold secret counsel excluding the third person."
Hadith - 61
Narrated Anas bin Malik: The Prophet (ﷺ) confided to me a secret which I did not disclose to anybody after him. And Um Sulaim asked me (about that secret) but I did not tell her.
Hadith - 62
Narrated `Abdullah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "When you are three persons sitting together, then no two of you should hold secret counsel excluding the third person until you are with some other people too, for that would grieve him."
Hadith - 63
Narrated `Abdullah: One day, the Prophet (ﷺ) divided and distributed something amongst the people, whereupon an Ansari man said, "In this division Allah's Countenance has not been sought." I said, "By Allah! I will go (and inform) the Prophet."
So I went to him while he was with a group of people, and I secretly informed him of that, whereupon he became so angry that his face became red, and he then said, "May Allah bestow His Mercy on Moses (for) he was hurt more than that, yet he remained patient."
Hadith - 64
Narrated Anas: The Iqama for the prayer was announced while a man was talking to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) privately. He continued talking in that way till the Prophet's companions slept, and afterwards the Prophet (ﷺ) got up and offered the prayer with them.
Hadith - 65
Narrated Salim's father: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Do not keep the fire burning in your houses when you go to bed."
Hadith - 66
Narrated Abu Musa: One night, a house in Medina was burnt with its occupants. The Prophet (ﷺ) spoke about them, saying, "This fire is indeed your enemy, so whenever you go to bed, put it out to protect yourselves."
Hadith - 67
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "(At bedtime) cover the utensils, close the doors, and put out the lights, lest the evil creature (the rat) should pull away the wick and thus burn the people of the house."
Hadith - 68
Narrated Jabir: Allah's Apostle said, "When you intend going to bed at night, put out the lights, close the doors, tie the mouths of the water skins, and cover your food and drinks."
Hammam said, "I think he (the other narrator) added, 'even with a piece of wood across the utensil.'"
Hadith - 69
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Five things are in accordance with Al-Fitra (i.e. the tradition of prophets): to be circumcised, to shave the pelvic region, to pull out the hair of the armpits, to cut short the moustaches, and to clip the nails."
Hadith - 70
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The Prophet Abraham (ﷺ) circumcised himself after he had passed the age of eighty years, and he circumcised himself with an adze."
Hadith - 71
Narrated Sa`id bin Jubair: Ibn 'Abbas was asked, "How old were you when the Prophet (ﷺ) died?" He replied, "At that time I had been circumcised." At that time, people did not circumcise the boys till they attained the age of puberty.
Sa`id bin Jubair said, "Ibn 'Abbas said, 'When the Prophet died, I had already been circumcised.'"
Hadith - 72
Sa'id ibn Jubair said, "Ibn 'Abbas said, 'When the Prophet (ﷺ) died, I had already been circumcised.'"
Hadith - 73
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Whoever among you takes an oath wherein he says, 'By Al-Lat and Al-`Uzza,' names of two idols worshipped by the Pagans, he should say, 'None has the right to be worshipped but Allah.'
And whoever says to his friend, 'Come, let me gamble with you!', he should give something in charity."
Hadith - 74
Narrated Ibn `Umar: During the life-time of the Prophet (ﷺ), I built a house with my own hands so that it might protect me from the rain and shade me from the sun; and none of Allah's creatures assisted me in building it.
Hadith - 75
Narrated `Amr: Ibn `Umar said, "By Allah, I have not put a brick over a brick (i.e. constructed a building) or planted any date-palm tree since the death of the Prophet (ﷺ)."
Sufyan (the sub narrator) said, "I told this narration (of Ibn `Umar) to one of his (Ibn `Umar's) relatives, and he said, 'By Allah, he did build (something).'"
Sufyan added, "I said, 'He must have said (the above narration) before he built.'"