Hadith - 1
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "For every prophet there is one (special) invocation (that will not be rejected) with which he appeals (to Allah), and I want to keep such an invocation for interceding for my followers in the Hereafter."
Hadith - 2
Narrated Anas: That the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "For every prophet there is an invocation that surely will be responded by Allah," (or said), "For every prophet there was an invocation with which he appealed to Allah, and his invocation was accepted (in his lifetime), but I kept my (this special) invocation to intercede for my followers on the Day of Resurrection."
Hadith - 3
Narrated Shaddad bin Aus: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The most superior way of asking for forgiveness from Allah is: 'O Allah! You are my Rabb. There is no true god except You. You have created me, and I am Your slave, and I hold to Your Covenant as far as I can.
I seek refuge in You from the evil of what I have done. I acknowledge the favours that You have bestowed upon me, and I confess my sins. Pardon me, for none but You has the power to pardon.'"
The Prophet (ﷺ) added, "If somebody recites it during the day with firm faith in it, and dies on the same day before the evening, he will be from the people of Paradise; and if somebody recites it at night with firm faith in it, and dies before the morning, he will be from the people of Paradise."
Hadith - 4
Narrated Abu Huraira: I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "By Allah! I ask for forgiveness from Allah and turn to Him in repentance more than seventy times a day."
Hadith - 5
Narrated Al-Harith bin Suwaid: `Abdullah bin Mas`ud related to us two narrations: One from the Prophet (ﷺ) and the other from himself, saying: A believer sees his sins as if he were sitting under a mountain which, he is afraid, may fall on him; whereas the wicked person considers his sins as flies passing over his nose and he just drives them away like this." Abu Shihab (the sub-narrator) moved his hand over his nose in illustration.
(Ibn Mas`ud added): Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Allah is more pleased with the repentance of His slave than a man who encamps at a place where his life is jeopardized, but he has his riding beast carrying his food and water. He then rests his head and sleeps for a short while and wakes to find his riding beast gone.
(He starts looking for it) and suffers from severe heat and thirst or what Allah wished (him to suffer from). He then says, 'I will go back to my place.' He returns and sleeps again, and then (getting up), he raises his head to find his riding beast standing beside him."
Hadith - 6
Narrated Anas bin Malik: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Allah is more pleased with the repentance of His slave than anyone of you is pleased with finding his camel which he had lost in the desert."
Hadith - 7
Narrated Aisha: The Prophet (ﷺ) used to pray eleven rak`at in the late part of the night, and when dawn appeared, he would offer two rak`at and then lie on his right side till the Muadhdhin came to inform him (that the morning prayer was due).
Hadith - 8
Narrated Al-Bara bin `Azib: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said to me, "When you want to go to bed, perform ablution as you do for prayer, then lie down on your right side and say: 'O Allah I have handed over my face to thee, entrusted my affairs to Thee, and committed my back to Thee out of desire for and fear to thee.
There is no refuge and no place of safety from Thee except by having recourse to Thee. I believe in Thy Book which Thou hast sent down and in Thy prophet whom thou hast sent down.'
If you should die then (after reciting this) you will die on the religion of Islam (i.e., as a Muslim); so let these words be the last you say (before going to bed)."
While I was memorizing it, I said, "in Your Apostle whom You have sent." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "No, but say: 'in Your Prophet whom You have sent.'"
Hadith - 9
Narrated Hudhaifa: When the Prophet (ﷺ) went to bed, he would say: "With Your name I die and I live." And when he got up he would say: "All the Praises are for Allah Who has made us alive after He made us die (sleep) and unto Him is the Resurrection."
Hadith - 10
Narrated Al-Bara bin `Azib: That the Prophet (ﷺ) advised a man, saying, "If you intend to lie down (i.e. go to bed), say, 'O Allah I have handed over my face to thee, entrusted my affairs to thee, and committed my back to thee out of desire for and fear to thee.
There is no refuge and no place of safety from thee except by having recourse to thee. I believe in Thy Book which Thou hast sent down and in Thy prophet whom thou hast sent down.'
And if you should die then (after reciting this before going to bed) you will die on the religion of Islam.
Hadith - 11
Narrated Hudhaifa: When the Prophet (ﷺ) went to bed at night, he would put his hand under his cheek and then say, "O Allah, With Your name I die and I live," and when he got up, he would say, "All the Praises are for Allah Who has made us alive after He made us die (sleep) and unto Him is the Resurrection."
Hadith - 12
Narrated Al-Bara' bin `Azib: When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) went to bed, he used to sleep on his right side and then say, "O Allah, I have handed over my face to Thee, entrusted my affairs to Thee, and committed my back to Thee out of desire for and fear to Thee.
There is no refuge and no place of safety from Thee except by having recourse to Thee. I believe in Thy Book which Thou hast sent down and in Thy prophet whom thou hast sent down."
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Whoever recites these words (before going to bed) and dies the same night, he will die on the Islamic religion (as a Muslim)."
Hadith - 13
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: One night I slept at the house of Maimuna. The Prophet (ﷺ) woke up, answered the call of nature, washed his face and hands, and then slept.
He got up (late at night), went to a water skin, opened the mouth thereof and performed ablution not using much water, yet he washed all the parts properly and then offered the prayer.
I got up and straightened my back in order that the Prophet (ﷺ) might not feel that I was watching him, and then I performed the ablution, and when he got up to offer the prayer, I stood on his left. He caught hold of my ear and brought me over to his right side.
He offered thirteen rak`at in all and then lay down and slept till he started blowing out his breath as he used to do when he slept.
In the meantime, Bilal informed the Prophet (ﷺ) of the approaching time for the (Fajr) prayer, and the Prophet offered the Fajr (Morning) prayer without performing new ablution.
He used to say in his invocation, "O Allah! place light in my heart, light in my hearing, light in my sight, light on my right, light on my left, light in front of me, light behind me, light above me, light below me, make light for me."
Kuraib (a sub narrator) said, "I have forgotten seven other words, (which the Prophet (ﷺ) mentioned in this invocation). I met a man from the offspring of Al-`Abbas and he narrated those seven things to me, mentioning, '(Let there be light in) my nerves, my flesh, my blood, my hair and my body,' and he also mentioned two other things."
Hadith - 14
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: When the Prophet (ﷺ) got up at night to offer the night prayer, he used to say: "O Allah, to You be praise, You are the Light of the heavens and earth and whoever is in them.
To You be praise, You are the Sustainer of the Heavens and the earth and whoever is in them. To You be praise, You are the Sovereign of the heavens and earth and whoever is in them.
To You be praise; You are True, Your promise is true, Paradise is true, Hell is true, the Hour is true, the Prophets are true and Muhammad is true.
To You have I submitted, in You I put my trust and in You I have believed, to You I turn, and with Your help I argue [with my opponents, the non-believers], and I take You as a judge [to judge between us].
Forgive me my past and future sins and those that I commit openly. You are the One who puts [some people] back and bring [others] forward. There is no God but You."
Hadith - 15
Narrated `Ali: Fatima complained about the blisters on her hand because of using a mill-stone. She went to ask the Prophet for a servant, but she did not find him (at home) and had to inform `Aisha of her need. When he came, `Aisha informed him about it.
`Ali added: The Prophet (ﷺ) came to us when we had gone to our beds. When I was going to get up, he said, "Stay in your places," and sat between us, till I felt the coolness of the feet on my chest.
The Prophet (ﷺ) then said, "Shall I not tell you of a thing which is better for you than a servant? When you (both) go to your beds, say "Allahu Akbar" thirty-three times, and "Subhan Allah" thirty-three times, "Alhamdulillah" thirty-three times, for that is better for you than a servant."
Ibn Seereen said: "Subhan Allah" (is to be said for) thirty-four times.
Hadith - 16
Narrated `Aisha: Whenever Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) went to bed, he used to blow on his hands while reciting the Mu'auwidhat (i.e. Surat al-Falaq (Surah 113) and Surat an-Nas (Surah 114)) and then pass his hands over his body.
Hadith - 17
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "When anyone of you goes to bed, he should shake out his bed with the inside of his waist sheet, for he does not know what has come on to it after him, and then he should say: 'With Your Name, my Rabb, I place my side (upon the bed) and with Your Grace I will raise it up.
If You withhold my soul (cause me to die), have mercy on it but if You let it go (let me live), guard it against which You guarded Your pious slaves.'"
Hadith - 18
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "When it is the last third of the night, our Lord, the Blessed, the Superior, descends every night to the heaven of the world and says, 'Is there anyone who invokes Me (demand anything from Me), that I may respond to his invocation; Is there anyone who asks Me for something that I may give (it to) him; Is there anyone who asks My forgiveness that I may forgive him?'"
Hadith - 19
Narrated Anas bin Malik: Whenever the Prophet (ﷺ) went to the lavatory, he used to say: "O Allah, I seek Refuge with You from all offensive and wicked things (evil deeds and evil spirits)."
Hadith - 20
Narrated Shaddad bin 'Aus: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The most superior way of asking for forgiveness from Allah is: 'O Allah! You are my Rabb. There is no true god except You. You have created me, and I am Your slave, and I hold to Your Covenant as far as I can.
I seek refuge in You from the evil of what I have done. I acknowledge the favours that You have bestowed upon me, and I confess my sins. Pardon me, for none but You has the power to pardon.'
If somebody recites this invocation during the night, and if he should die then, he will go to Paradise (or he will be from the people of Paradise). And if he recites it in the morning, and if he should die on the same day, he will have the same fate."
Hadith - 21
Narrated Hudhaifa: Whenever the Prophet (ﷺ) intended to go to bed, he would recite: "With Your name, O Allah, I die and I live."
And when he woke up from his sleep, he would say: "All the Praises are for Allah Who has made us alive after He made us die (sleep) and unto Him is the Resurrection."
Hadith - 22
Narrated Abu Dhar: Whenever the Prophet (ﷺ) lay on his bed, he used to say: "O Allah, With Your name I die and I live," and when he woke up he would say: "All the Praises are for Allah Who has made us alive after He made us die (sleep) and unto Him is the Resurrection."
Hadith - 23
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Amr: Abu Bakr As-Siddiq said to the Prophet, "Teach me an invocation with which I may invoke (Allah) in my prayer."
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Say: O Allah, I have wronged myself greatly and no one forgives sins but You, so grant me forgiveness from You and have mercy on me, for You are the Oft-Forgiving, Most Merciful."
Hadith - 24
Narrated `Aisha: The Verse: 'Neither say your prayer aloud, nor say it in a low tone' (Surah 17: Ayah 110) was revealed as regards invocation.
Hadith - 25
Narrated `Abdullah: We used to say in the prayer: "As-Salam be on Allah, As-Salam be on so-and-so." So one day the Prophet said to us, "Allah Himself is As-Salam.
When anyone of you sits during his prayer, he should say: 'All compliments, prayers and pure words are due to Allah. Peace be upon you, O Prophet, and the mercy of Allah and His blessings. Peace be upon us and upon the righteous slaves of Allah,' for when he recites this, then he says his Salam to all the righteous people present in the heavens and on the earth.
Then he should say, 'I testify that none has the right to be worshipped except Allah, and that Muhammad is His slave and His Apostle,' and then he can select whatever he likes to celebrate (Allah's) Praises."
Hadith - 26
Narrated Abu Huraira: The people said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! The rich people have got the highest degrees of prestige and the permanent pleasures (in this life and the life to come in the Hereafter)."
He said, "How is that?" They said, "The rich pray as we pray, and strive in Allah's Cause as we do, and spend from their surplus wealth in charity, while we have no wealth (to spend likewise)."
He said, 'Shall I not tell you a thing, by doing which you will catch up with those who are ahead of you and supersede those who will come after you; and nobody will be able to do such a good deed as you do except the one who does the same (deed as you do)?
That deed is to recite "Subhan Allah" ten times, and "Alhamdulillah" ten times, and "Allahu-Akbar" ten times after every prayer.'
Hadith - 27
Narrated Warrad (the freed slave of Al-Mughira bin Shu`ba): Al-Mughira wrote to Muawiya bin Abu Sufyan that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to say at the end of every prayer after the Taslim, "None has the right to be worshipped but Allah Alone Who has no partner.
Sovereignty belongs to Him and to Him is praise due, and He is Potent over everything. O Allah! No-one can withhold what You give, and none can give what You withhold, and the fortune of a man of means is useless before You (i.e., only good deeds are of value)."
Hadith - 28
Narrated Salama bin Al-Akwa`: We went out with the Prophet (ﷺ) to Khaibar. A man among the people said, "O 'Amir! Will you please recite to us some of your poetic verses?"
So 'Amir got down and started chanting among them, saying, "By Allah! Had it not been for Allah, we would not have been guided." 'Amir also said other poetic verses which I do not remember.
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Who is this (camel) driver?" The people said, "He is 'Amir bin Al-Akwa`." He said, "May Allah bestow His Mercy on him." A man from the people said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Would that you let us enjoy his company longer."
When the people (Muslims) lined up, the battle started, and 'Amir was struck with his own sword (by chance) by himself and died.
In the evening, the people made a large number of fires (for cooking meals). Allah's Apostle said, "What is this fire? What are you making the fire for?" They said, "For cooking the meat of donkeys."
He said, "Throw away what is in the pots and break the pots!" A man said, "O Allah's Prophet! May we throw away what is in them and wash them?" He said, "Never mind, you may do so."
Hadith - 29
Narrated Ibn Abi `Aufa: Whenever a man brought his alms to the Prophet, the Prophet (ﷺ) would say, "O Allah! Bestow Your Blessing upon the family of so-and-so." When my father came to him (with his alms), he said, "O Allah! Bestow Your Blessings upon the family of Abi `Aufa."
Hadith - 30
Narrated Jarir: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said to me, "Will you relieve me from Dhi-al-Khalasa?" Dhi-al-Khalasa was an idol which the people used to worship and it was called Al-Ka`ba al-Yamaniyya.
I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) I am a man who can't sit firm on horses." So he stroked my chest (with his hand) and said, "O Allah! Make him firm and make him a guiding and well-guided man."
So I went out with fifty (men) from my tribe of Ahmas. (The sub-narrator, Sufyan, quoting Jarir, perhaps said, "I went out with a group of men from my nation,") and came to Dhi-al-Khalasa and burnt it, and then came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! I have not come to you till I left it like a camel with a skin disease."
The Prophet then invoked good upon Ahmas and their cavalry (fighters).
Hadith - 31
Narrated Anas: Um Sulaim said to the Prophet (ﷺ), "Anas is your servant." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O Allah! increase his wealth and offspring, and bless (for him) what ever you give him."
Hadith - 32
Narrated `Aisha: The Prophet (ﷺ) heard a man reciting (the Qur'an) in the mosque. He said,"May Allah bestow His Mercy on him, as he made me remember such-and-such Verse which I had missed in such-and-such Surah."
Hadith - 33
Narrated `Abdullah: The Prophet (ﷺ) divided something (among the Muslims) and distributed the shares (of the booty). A man said, "This division has not been made to please Allah."
When I informed the Prophet (ﷺ) about it, he became so furious that I noticed the signs of anger on his face and he then said, "May Allah bestow His Mercy on Moses, for he was hurt with more than this, yet he remained patient."
Hadith - 34
Narrated `Ikrima: Ibn `Abbas said, "Preach to the people once a week, and if you won't, then preach them twice, but if you want to preach more, then let it be three times (a week only), and do not make the people fed-up with this Qur'an.
If you come to some people who are engaged in a talk, don't start interrupting their talk by preaching, lest you should cause them to be bored. You should rather keep quiet, and if they ask you, then preach to them at the time when they are eager to hear what you say.
And avoid the use of rhymed prose in invocation for I noticed that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and his companions always avoided it."
Hadith - 35
Narrated Anas: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "When anyone of you appeal to Allah for something, he should ask with determination and should not say, 'O Allah, if You wish, give me', for nobody can force Allah to do something against His Will."
Hadith - 36
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "None of you should say: 'O Allah, forgive me if You wish; O Allah, be merciful to me if You wish,' but he should always appeal to Allah with determination, for nobody can force Allah to do something against His Will."
Hadith - 37
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, 'The invocation of anyone of you is granted (by Allah) if he does not show impatience (by saying, "I invoked Allah but my request has not been granted)."'
Hadith - 38
Narrated Anas, "The Prophet (ﷺ) raised his hands (in invocation) till I saw the whiteness of his armpits."
Hadith - 39
Narrated Anas: While the Prophet (ﷺ) was delivering a sermon on a Friday, a man stood up and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Invoke Allah to bless us with rain."
(The Prophet (ﷺ) invoked Allah for rain.) So, the sky became overcast and it started raining till one could hardly reach one's home.
It kept on raining till the next Friday when the same man or another man got up and said (to the Prophet), "Invoke Allah to withhold the rain from us, for we have been drowned (with heavy rain )."
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O Allah! Let it rain around us and not on us." Then the clouds started dispersing around Medina and rain ceased to fall on the people of Medina.
Hadith - 40
Narrated `Abdullah bin Zaid: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) went out to this Musalla (praying place) to offer the prayer of Istisqa'. He invoked Allah for rain and then faced the Qibla and turned his Rida' (upper garment) inside out.
Hadith - 41
Narrated Anas: My mother said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Please invoke Allah on behalf of your servant." He said, "O Allah! Increase his wealth and children, and bestow Your Blessing on whatever You give him."
Hadith - 42
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: The Prophet (ﷺ) used to invoke Allah at the time of distress, saying, "None has the right to be worshipped but Allah, the Majestic, the Most Forbearing. None has the right to be worshipped but Allah, the Lord of the Heavens and the Earth, and the Lord of the Magnificent Throne."
Hadith - 43
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to say at a time of distress, "None has the right to be worshipped but Allah, the Lord of the Tremendous Throne. None has the right to be worshipped but Allah, the Lord of the Heavens and the Earth, and the Lord of the Honourable Throne."
Hadith - 44
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to seek refuge with Allah from the difficult moment of a calamity, and from being overtaken by destruction, and from being destined to an evil end and from the malicious joy of enemies.
Sufyan said, "This narration contained three items only, but I added one. I do not know which one that was."
Hadith - 45
Narrated `Aisha: When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was healthy, he used to say, "No prophet dies till he is shown his place in Paradise, and then he is given the option (to live or die)."
So when death approached him (during his illness), and while his head was on my thigh, he became unconscious for a while, and when he recovered, he fixed his eyes on the ceiling and said, "O Allah! (Let me join) the Highest Companions (see Qur'an, Surah 4: Ayah 69)," I said, "So, he does not choose us."
Then I realized that it was the application of the statement he used to relate to us when he was healthy. So that was his last utterance (before he died), i.e., "O Allah! (Let me join) the Highest Companions."
Hadith - 46
Narrated Qais: I came to Khabbab who had been branded with seven brands and he said, "Had Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) not forbidden us to invoke (Allah) for death, I would have invoked (Allah) for it."
Hadith - 47
Narrated Qais: I came to Khabbab who had been branded with seven brands over his abdomen, and I heard him saying, "If the Prophet: had not forbidden us to invoke (Allah) for death, I would have invoked Allah for it."
Hadith - 48
Narrated Anas: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "None of you should long for death because of a calamity that had befallen him, and if he cannot but long for death, then he should say, 'O Allah! Let me live as long as life is better for me, and take my life if death is better for me.'"
Hadith - 49
Narrated As-Sa'ib bin Yazid: My aunt took me to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! My sister's son is sick." So he passed his hand over my head and invoked for Allah's blessing upon me and then performed the ablution.
I drank from the water of his ablution and I stood behind him and looked at his Khatam (the seal of Prophethood) between his shoulders (and its size was) like the button of a tent.
Hadith - 50
Narrated Abu `Aqil: That his grandfather, `Abdullah bin Hisham, used to take him from the market or to the market (the narrator is in doubt) and used to buy grain and when Ibn Az-Zubair and Ibn `Umar met him, they would say to him, "Let us be your partners (in trading) as the Prophet (ﷺ) invoked for Allah's blessing upon you."
He would then take them as partners and he would sometimes gain a whole load carried by an animal which he would send home.
Hadith - 51
Narrated Mahmud bin Ar-Rabi: On whose face Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had thrown water from his mouth, the water having been taken from their well while he was still a young boy (who had not yet attained the age of puberty).
Hadith - 52
Narrated `Aisha: The boys used to be brought to the Prophet (ﷺ) and he used to invoke for Allah's blessing upon them. Once an infant was brought to him and it urinated on his clothes. He asked for water and poured it over the place of the urine and did not wash his clothes.
Hadith - 53
Narrated `Abdullah bin Tha`laba bin Su'air: Whose eye Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had touched, that he had seen Sa`d bin Abi Waqqas offering one rak`a only for the witr prayer.
Hadith - 54
Narrated `Abdur-Rahman bin Abi Laila: Ka`b bin 'Ujra met me and said, "Shall I give you a present? Once the Prophet (ﷺ) came to us and we said, 'O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! We know how to greet you; but how to send Salat upon you?'
He said, 'Say: O Allah, exalt the mention of Muhammad and the family of Muhammad as you exalted the family of Ibrahim. You are Praised and Glorious. O Allah, bless Muhammad and the family of Muhammad as You blessed the family of Ibrahim. You are Praised and Glorious.'"
Hadith - 55
Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri: We said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) This is (i.e. we know) the greeting to you; will you tell us how to send Salat on you?"
He said, "Say: 'O Allah, send salah upon Muhammad, Your slave and Messenger, as You sent Salah upon Ibrahim, and send blessings upon Muhammad and upon the family of Muhammad as You sent blessings upon Ibrahim and the family of Ibrahim.'"
Hadith - 56
Narrated Ibn Abi `Aufa: Whenever somebody brought alms to the Prophet (ﷺ), he used to say, "O Allah! Send Your Salat (Grace and Honor) on him." Once when my father brought his alms to him, he said, "O Allah! Send Your Salat (Grace and Honor) on the family of Abi `Aufa."
Hadith - 57
Narrated Abu Humaid As-Saidi: The people said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! How may we send Salat on you?"
He said, "Say: O Allah, exalt the mention of Muhammad and his wives and offspring as You exalted the mention of the family of Ibrahim, and bless Muhammad and the wives and the offspring of Muhammad as you blessed the family of Ibrahim. You are the Praised, the Glorious."
Hadith - 58
Narrated Abu Huraira: That he heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "O Allah! If I should ever abuse a believer, please let that be a means of bringing him near to You on the Day of Resurrection."