Hadith - 59
Narrated Anas: Once the people started asking Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) questions, and they asked so many questions that he became angry and ascended the pulpit and said, "I will answer whatever questions you may ask me today."
I looked right and left and saw everyone covering his face with his garment and weeping. Behold! There was a man who, on quarreling with the people, used to be called as a son of a person other than his father.
He said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Who is my father?" The Prophet (ﷺ) replied, "Your father is Hudhaifa."
And then `Umar got up and said, "We accept Allah as our Lord, and Islam as (our) religion, and Muhammad as (our) Apostle; and we seek refuge with Allah from the afflictions."
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "I have never seen a day like today in its good and its evil, for Paradise and the Hell Fire were displayed in front of me, till I saw them just beyond this wall."
Qatada, when relating this Hadith, used to mention the following Verse: 'O you who believe! Ask not questions about things which, if made plain to you, may cause you trouble.' (Surah 5: Ayah 101)
Hadith - 60
Narrated Anas bin Malik: The Prophet (ﷺ) said to Abu Talha, "Choose one of your boys to serve me." So Abu Talha took me (to serve the Prophet (ﷺ)) by giving me a ride behind him (on his camel). So I used to serve Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) whenever he stayed somewhere.
I used to hear him saying, "O Allah! I seek refuge with You (Allah) from (worries) care and grief, from incapacity and laziness, from miserliness and cowardice, from being heavily in debt and from being overpowered by other men."
I kept on serving him till he returned from (the battle of) Khaibar. He then brought Safiya, the daughter of Huyay whom he had got (from the booty). I saw him making a kind of cushion with a cloak or a garment for her. He then let her ride behind him.
When we reached a place called As-Sahba', he prepared (a special meal called) Hais, and asked me to invite the men who (came and) ate, and that was the marriage banquet given on the consummation of his marriage to her.
Then he proceeded till the mountain of Uhud appeared, whereupon he said, "This mountain loves us and we love it."
When he approached Medina, he said, "O Allah! I make the land between its (i.e., Medina's) two mountains a sanctuary, as the prophet Abraham made Mecca a sanctuary. O Allah! Bless them (the people of Medina) in their Mudd and the Sa' (units of measuring)."
Hadith - 61
Narrated Um Khalid bint Khalid: I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) seeking refuge with Allah from the punishment of the grave.
Hadith - 62
Narrated Mus`ab: Sa`d used to recommend five (statements) and mentioned that the Prophet (ﷺ) used to recommend it.
(It was), "O Allah! I seek refuge with You from miserliness; and seek refuge with You from cowardice; and seek refuge with You from being sent back to geriatric old age; and I seek refuge with You from the affliction of this world (i.e., the affliction of Ad-Dajjal etc); and seek refuge with You from the punishment of the grave."
Hadith - 63
Narrated `Aisha: Two old ladies from among the Jewish ladies entered upon me and said, "The dead are punished in their graves," but I thought they were telling a lie and did not believe them in the beginning.
When they went away and the Prophet (ﷺ) entered upon me, I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Two old ladies..." and told him the whole story.
He said, "They told the truth; the dead are really punished, to the extent that all the animals hear (the sound resulting from) their punishment." Since then I always saw him seeking refuge with Allah from the punishment of the grave in his prayers.
Hadith - 64
Narrated Anas bin Malik: Allah's Prophet used to say, "O Allah! I seek refuge with You from incapacity and laziness, from cowardice and geriatric old age, and seek refuge with You from the punishment of the grave, and I seek refuge with You from the afflictions of life and death."
Hadith - 65
Narrated `Aisha: The Prophet (ﷺ) used to say, "O Allah! I seek refuge with You from laziness and geriatric old age, from all kinds of sins and from being in debt; from the trial and affliction of the grave and from the punishment in the grave; from the affliction of the Fire and from the punishment of the Fire; and from the evil of the affliction of wealth; and I seek refuge with You from the affliction of poverty, and I seek refuge with You from the affliction of Al-Masih Ad-Dajjal.
O Allah! Wash away my sins with the water of snow and hail, and cleanse my heart from all the sins as a white garment is cleansed from the filth, and let there be a long distance between me and my sins, as You made East and West far from each other."
Hadith - 66
Narrated Anas bin Malik: The Prophet (ﷺ) used to say, "O Allah! I seek refuge with You from worry and grief, from incapacity and laziness, from cowardice and miserliness, from being heavily in debt and from being overpowered by (other) men."
Hadith - 67
Narrated Mus`ab bin Sa`d: Sa`d bin Abi Waqqas used to recommend these five (statements) and say that the Prophet (ﷺ) said so (and they are): "O Allah! I seek refuge with You from miserliness, and seek refuge with You from cowardice, and seek refuge with You from being brought back to geriatric old age, and seek refuge with You from the afflictions of the world, and seek refuge with You from the punishment of the grave."
Hadith - 68
Narrated Anas bin Malik: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to seek refuge with Allah saying, "O Allah! I seek refuge with You from laziness, and seek refuge with You from cowardice, and seek refuge with You from geriatric old age, and seek refuge with You from miserliness."
Hadith - 69
Narrated `Aisha: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O Allah! Make us love Medina as You made us love Mecca, or more, and transfer the fever that is in it to Al-Juhfa. O Allah! Bless our Mudd and our Sa' (kinds of measures)."
Hadith - 70
Narrated 'Amir bin Sa`d: That his father said, "In the year of Hajjat-al-Wada`, the Prophet (ﷺ) paid me a visit while I was suffering from an ailment that had brought me to the verge of death.
I said, 'O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! My sickness has reduced me to the (bad) state as you see, and I am a rich man, but have no heirs except one daughter. Shall I give 2/3 of my property in charity?' He said, 'No.'
I said, 'Then 1/2 of it?' He said, 'Even 1/3 is too much, for to leave your inheritors wealthy is better than to leave them in poverty, begging from people. And (know that) whatever you spend in Allah's Cause, you will get reward for it, even for the morsel of food which you put in your wife's mouth.'
I said, 'O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Will I be left behind my companions (in Mecca)?' He said, 'If you remain behind, whatever good deed you will do for Allah's Sake will raise and upgrade you to a higher position (in Allah's Sight).
May be you will live longer so that some people may benefit by you, and some others (pagans) may get harmed by you. O Allah! Complete the migration of my companions and do not turn them on their heels.
But (we pity) the poor Sa`d bin Khaula (not the above mentioned Sa`d) (died in Mecca)." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) lamented (or pitied) for him as he died in Mecca.
Hadith - 71
Narrated Sa`d: Seek refuge with Allah by saying the words which the Prophet (ﷺ) used to say while seeking refuge with Allah, "O Allah! I seek refuge with You from cowardice, and seek refuge with You from miserliness, and seek refuge with You from reaching a degraded geriatric old age, and seek refuge with You from the afflictions of the world and from the punishment in the grave."
Hadith - 72
Narrated `Aisha: The Prophet (ﷺ) used to say, "O Allah! I seek refuge with You from laziness, from geriatric old age, from being in debt, and from committing sins.
O Allah! I seek refuge with You from the punishment of the Fire, the afflictions of the grave, the punishment in the grave, and the evil of the affliction of poverty and from the evil of the affliction caused by Al-Masih Ad-Dajjal.
O Allah! Wash away my sins with the water of snow and hail, and cleanse my heart from the sins as a white garment is cleansed of filth, and let there be a far away distance between me and my sins as You have set far away the East and the West from each other."
Hadith - 73
Narrated `Aisha: The Prophet (ﷺ) used to seek refuge with Allah (by saying), "O Allah! I seek refuge with You from the affliction of the Fire and from the punishment in the Fire, and seek refuge with You from the affliction of the grave, and I seek refuge with You from the affliction of wealth, and I seek refuge with You from the affliction of poverty, and seek refuge with You from the affliction of Al-Masih Ad-Dajjal."
Hadith - 74
Narrated `Aisha: The Prophet (ﷺ) used to say, "O Allah! I seek refuge with You from the affliction of the Fire, the punishment of the Fire, the affliction of the grave, the punishment of the grave, and the evil of the affliction of poverty.
O Allah! I seek refuge with You from the evil of the affliction of Al-Masih Ad-Dajjal.
O Allah! Cleanse my heart with the water of snow and hail, and cleanse my heart from all sins as a white garment is cleansed from filth, and let there be a far away distance between me and my sins as You made the East and West far away from each other.
O Allah! I seek refuge with You from laziness, sins, and from being in debt."
Hadith - 75
Narrated Um Sulaim: That she said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Anas is your servant, so please invoke for Allah's blessing for him." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O Allah! Increase his wealth and offspring and bless (for him) whatever You give him.
Hadith - 76
Narrated Anas: Um Sulaim said (to the Prophet), "Anas is your servant; so please invoke for Allah's blessings for him." He said, "O Allah! Increase his wealth and offspring, and Bless (for him) whatever You give him."
Hadith - 77
Narrated Jabir: The Prophet (ﷺ) used to teach us the Istikhara for each and every matter as he used to teach us the Suras from the Holy Qur'an.
(He used to say), "If anyone of you intends to do something, he should offer a two-rak`at prayer other than the obligatory prayer, and then say (what means): 'O Allah! I ask guidance from Your knowledge, and Power from Your Might and I ask for Your great blessings. You are capable and I am not. You know and I do not and You know the unseen.
O Allah! If You know that this job is good for my religion and my subsistence and in my Hereafter - (or said: If it is better for my present and later needs) - then You ordain it for me.
And if You know that this job is harmful to me in my religion and subsistence and in the Hereafter - (or said: If it is worse for my present and later needs) - then keep it away from me and let me be away from it.
And ordain for me whatever is good for me, and make me satisfied with it." Then he should mention his matter (need).
Hadith - 78
Narrated Abu Musa: The Prophet (ﷺ) asked for some water and performed the ablution, and then raised his hands (towards the sky) and said, "O Allah! Forgive `Ubaid Abi 'Amir."
I saw the whiteness of his armpits (while he was raising his hands) and he added, "O Allah! Upgrade him over many of Your human creatures on the Day of Resurrection."
Hadith - 79
Narrated Abu Musa: We were in the company of the Prophet (ﷺ) on a journey, and whenever we ascended a high place, we used to say Takbir (in a loud voice).
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O people! Be kind to yourselves, for you are not calling upon a deaf or an absent one, but You are calling an All-Hearer, and an All-Seer."
Then he came to me as I was reciting silently (what means), "There is neither might nor power but with Allah." He said, "O `Abdullah bin Qais! Say (what means): 'There is neither might nor power but with Allah,' for it is one of the treasures of Paradise."
Or he said, "Shall I tell you a word which is one of the treasures of Paradise? It is (what means): 'There is neither might nor power but with Allah.'"
Hadith - 80
Narrated Ibn `Umar: Whenever Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) returned from a Ghazwa or Hajj or `Umra, he used to say, "Allahu Akbar" three times whenever he went up a high place.
Then he used to say (what means), "None has the right to be worshipped but Allah, Who has no partner, to Whom the sovereignty belongs, to Whom all praise is due, and Who is Able to do all things.
We are those who return (in safety), feel penitence, worship Allah, prostrate before our Rabb and praise Him. Allah has fulfilled His Promise, helped His slave (i.e., Muhammad (ﷺ)) and He Alone vanquished the Clans."
Hadith - 81
Narrated Anas: The Prophet (ﷺ) seeing a yellow mark (of perfume) on the clothes of `Abdur-Rahman bin `Auf, said, "What about you?" `Abdur-Rahman replied, "I have married a woman with a Mahr of gold equal to a date-stone."
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "May Allah bestow His Blessing on you (in your marriage). Give a wedding banquet (Walima), even with one sheep."
Hadith - 82
Narrated Jabir: My father died and left behind seven or nine daughters, and I married a woman. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Did you get married, O Jabir?" I replied, "Yes."
He asked, "Is she a virgin or a matron?" I replied, "She is a matron." He said, "Why didn't you marry a virgin girl so that you might play with her and she with you (or, you might make her laugh and she make you laugh)?"
I said, "My father died, leaving seven or nine girls (orphans) and I did not like to bring a young girl like them, so I married a woman who can look after them." He said, "May Allah bestow His Blessing on you."
Hadith - 83
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If anyone of you, when intending to have a sexual intercourse with his wife, says (what means): 'In the name of Allah. O Allah! Protect us from Satan and prevent Satan from approaching our offspring you are going to give us,' and if the couple are destined to have a child (out of that very sexual relation), then Satan will never be able to harm that child."
Hadith - 84
Narrated Anas: The most frequent invocation of the Prophet (ﷺ) was: "O Allah! Give to us in the world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire." (Surah 2: Ayah 201)
Hadith - 85
Narrated Sa`d bin Abi Waqqas: The Prophet (ﷺ) used to teach us these words as he used to teach us the Book (Qur'an): "O Allah! I seek refuge with You from miserliness, and seek refuge with You from cowardice, and seek refuge with You from being brought back to (senile) geriatric old age, and seek refuge with You from the affliction of the world and from the punishment in the Hereafter."
Hadith - 86
Narrated `Aisha: That Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was affected by magic, so much that he used to think that he had done something which in fact he did not do, and he invoked his Lord (for a remedy).
Then (one day) he said, "O `Aisha! Do you know that Allah has advised me as to the problem I consulted Him about?" `Aisha said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! What's that?"
He said, "Two men came to me and one of them sat at my head and the other at my feet, and one of them asked his companion, 'What is wrong with this man?' The latter replied, 'He is under the effect of magic.'
The former asked, "Who has worked magic on him?" The latter replied, "Labid bin Al-A'sam." The former asked, "With what did he work the magic?" The latter replied, "With a comb and the hair which are stuck to the comb, and the skin of pollen of a date-palm tree."
The former asked, 'Where is that?' The latter replied, 'It is in Dharwan.' Dharwan was a well in the dwelling place of the (tribe of) Bani Zuraiq.
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) went to that well and returned to `Aisha, saying, 'By Allah, the water (of the well) was as red as the infusion of Hinna, and the date-palm trees look like the heads of devils.'
`Aisha added: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) came to me and informed me about the well. I asked the Prophet, 'O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), why didn't you take out the skin of pollen?'
He said, 'As for me, Allah has cured me, and I hated to draw the attention of the people to such evil (which they might learn and harm others with).'"
Narrated Hisham's father: `Aisha said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was bewitched, so he invoked Allah repeatedly requesting Him to cure him from that magic." Hisham then narrated the above narration.
Hadith - 87
Narrated Ibn Abi `Aufa: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) asked for Allah's wrath upon the Ahzab (confederates), saying, "O Allah, the Revealer of the Holy Book, and the One swift at reckoning! Defeat the confederates; Defeat them and shake them."
Hadith - 88
Narrated Abu Huraira: When the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Sami' Allahu liman hamidah (Allah heard him who sent his praises to Him)," in the last rak`a of the `Isha' prayer, he used to invoke Allah, saying, "O Allah! Save `Aiyash bin Abi Rabi`a. O Allah! Save Al-Walid bin Al-Walid. O Allah! Save the weak people among the believers.
O Allah! Be hard on the Tribe of Mudar. O Allah! Inflict years of drought upon them like the years (of drought) of the Prophet Joseph (ﷺ)."
Hadith - 89
Narrated Anas: The Prophet (ﷺ) sent a Sariya (an army detachment) consisting of men called Al-Qurra', and all of them were martyred. I had never seen the Prophet (ﷺ) so sad over anything as he was over them.
So he said Qunut (invocation in the prayer) for one month in the Fajr prayer, invoking for Allah's wrath upon the tribe of 'Usaiya, and he used to say, "The people of 'Usaiya have disobeyed Allah and His Apostle."
Hadith - 90
Narrated `Aisha: The Jews used to greet the Prophet (ﷺ) by saying, "As-Samu 'Alaika (i.e., death be upon you)," so I understood what they said, and I said to them, "As-Samu 'alaikum wal la'na (i.e. Death and Allah's Curse be upon you)."
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Be gentle and calm, O `Aisha, as Allah likes gentleness in all affairs."
I said, "O Allah's Prophet! Didn't you hear what they said?" He said, 'Didn't you hear me answering them back by saying, "Alaikum (i.e., the same be upon you)"?'
Hadith - 91
Narrated `Ali bin Abi Talib: We were in the company of the Prophet (ﷺ) on the day (of the battle) of Al-Khandaq (the Trench).
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "May Allah fill their (the infidels') graves and houses with fire, as they have kept us so busy that we could not offer the middle prayer till the sun had set," and that prayer was the `Asr prayer.
Hadith - 92
Narrated Abu Huraira: At-Tufail bin `Amr came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! The tribe of Daus has disobeyed (Allah and His Apostle) and refused (to embrace Islam), therefore, invoke Allah's wrath for them."
The people thought that the Prophet (ﷺ) would invoke Allah's wrath for them, but he said, "O Allah! Guide the tribe of Daus and let them come to us."
Hadith - 93
Narrated Abu Musa: The Prophet (ﷺ) used to invoke Allah with the following invocation (what means): "O Allah! Forgive my errors, ignorance and immoderation in my affairs, all of it. You are better aware of my faults than myself.
O Allah! Forgive my faults which I committed in seriousness or in fun, deliberately or inadvertently, as I have committed all of these (types of sins). O Allah! Grant me pardon for those sins which I committed in the past and I may commit in future, which I committed in privacy or in public.
You Alone can send whomever You will to Jannah, and You Alone can send whomever You will to Hell-fire, and You are Omnipotent."
Hadith - 94
Narrated Abu Musa Al-Ash`ari: The Prophet (ﷺ) used to invoke Allah, saying (what means), "O Allah, forgive my mistakes, ignorance, transgression in my matters, and what You are more Knowledgeable of than me.
O Allah, forgive me for what I did in jest and in earnestness, unintentionally or intentionally, as I have committed all of these (types of sins)."
Hadith - 95
Narrated Abu Huraira: Abul-Qasim (the Prophet) said, "On Friday, there is a particular time. If a Muslim happens to be praying and invoking Allah for something good during that time, Allah will surely fulfill his request."
The Prophet (ﷺ) pointed out with his hand. We thought that he wanted to illustrate how short that time was.
Hadith - 96
Narrated Ibn Abi Mulaika: `Aisha said, "The Jews came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said to him, "As-Samu 'Alaika (i.e., Death be upon you)." He replied, 'The same on you.'"
`Aisha said to them, "Death be upon you, and may Allah curse you and shower His wrath upon you!" Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Be gentle and calm, O `Aisha! Be gentle and beware of being harsh and of saying evil things."
She said, "Didn't you hear what they said?" He said, "Didn't you hear what I replied (to them)? I have returned their statement to them, and my invocation against them will be accepted but theirs against me will not be accepted."
Hadith - 97
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "When the Imam says 'Amin', then you should all say 'Amin', for the angels say 'Amin' at that time, and he whose 'Amin' coincides with the 'Amin' of the angels, all his past sins will be forgiven."
Hadith - 98
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, 'Whoever says (what means): "None has the right to be worshipped but Allah, Who has no partner, to Whom the sovereignty belongs, to Whom all praise is due, and Who is Able to do all things," one hundred times will get the same reward as given for manumitting ten slaves; and one hundred good deeds will be written in his accounts, and one hundred sins will be deducted from his accounts, and it (his saying) will be a shield for him from Satan on that day till night, and nobody will be able to do a better deed except the one who does more than he.'
Hadith - 99
Narrated `Amr bin Maimun: Whoever recites it (i.e., the invocation in the above Hadith) ten times will be as if he manumitted one of Ishmael's descendants.
Abu Aiyub narrated the same Hadith from the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "(Whoever recites it ten times) will be as if he had manumitted one of Ishmael's descendants."
Hadith - 100
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, 'Whoever says, "Subhan Allah wa bihamdihi," one hundred times a day, will be forgiven all his sins even if they were as much as the foam of the sea.'
Hadith - 101
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'There are two expressions which are very easy for the tongue to say, but they are very heavy in the balance and are very dear to The Beneficent (Allah), and they are, "Subhan Allah Al-`Azim" and "Subhan Allah wa bihamdihi."'
Hadith - 102
Narrated Abu Musa: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The example of the one who celebrates the Praises of his Lord (Allah) in comparison to the one who does not celebrate the Praises of his Lord, is that of a living creature compared to a dead one."
Hadith - 103
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Apostle said, "Allah has some angels who look for those who celebrate the Praises of Allah on the roads and paths. And when they find some people celebrating the Praises of Allah, they call each other, saying, 'Come to the object of your pursuit.'"
He added, "Then the angels encircle them with their wings up to the sky of the world."
He added, "(After those people celebrated the Praises of Allah, and the angels go back), their Lord asks them (those angels) - though He knows better than them - 'What do My slaves say?' The angels reply, 'They say: Subhan Allah, Allahu Akbar, and Alhamdulillah.'
Allah then says, 'Did they see Me?' The angels reply, 'No! By Allah, they didn't see You.' Allah says, 'How it would have been if they saw Me?'
The angels reply, 'If they saw You, they would worship You more devoutly and celebrate Your Glory more deeply, and declare Your freedom from any resemblance to anything more often.'
Allah says (to the angels), 'What do they ask Me for?' The angels reply, 'They ask You for Paradise.' Allah says (to the angels), 'Did they see it?' The angels say, 'No! By Allah, O Lord! They did not see it.' Allah says, 'How it would have been if they saw it?'
The angels say, 'If they saw it, they would have greater covetousness for it and would seek it with greater zeal and would have greater desire for it.'
Allah says, 'From what do they seek refuge?' The angels reply, 'They seek refuge from the (Hell) Fire.' Allah says, 'Did they see it?' The angels say, 'No By Allah, O Lord! They did not see it.' Allah says, 'How it would have been if they saw it?'
The angels say, 'If they saw it they would flee from it with the extreme fleeing and would have extreme fear from it.' Then Allah says, 'I make you witnesses that I have forgiven them."'
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) added, "One of the angels would say, 'There was so-and-so amongst them, and he was not one of them, but he had just come for some need.' Allah would say, 'These are those people whose companions will not be reduced to misery.'"
Hadith - 104
Narrated Abu Musa Al-Ash`ari: The Prophet (ﷺ) started ascending a high place or hill. A man (amongst his companions) ascended it and shouted in a loud voice, "La ilaha illallahu wallahu Akbar."
(At that time) Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was riding his mule. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "You are not calling upon a deaf or an absent one," and added, "O Abu Musa (or, O `Abdullah)! Shall I tell you a sentence from the treasure of Paradise?" I said, "Yes." He said (what means), "There is neither might nor power but with Allah."
Hadith - 105
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah has ninety-nine Names, i.e., one hundred minus one, and whoever believes in their meanings and acts accordingly, will enter Paradise; and Allah is witr (one) and loves the witr (i.e., odd numbers).
Hadith - 106
Narrated Shaqiq: While we were waiting for `Abdullah (bin Mas`ud), Yazid bin Muawiya came. I said (to him), "Will you sit down?"
He said, "No, but I will go into the house (of Ibn Mas`ud) and let your companion (Ibn Mas`ud) come out to you; and if he should not (come out), I will come out and sit (with you)."
Then `Abdullah came out, holding the hand of Yazid, addressed us, saying, "I know that you are assembled here, but the reason that prevents me from coming out to you is that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to preach to us at intervals during the days, lest we should become bored."