Hadith - 1
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: "There are two blessings that many people are deceived into losing: health and free time."
Hadith - 2
Narrated Anas: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O Allah! There is no life worth living except the life of the Hereafter, so (please) make righteous the Ansar and the Emigrants."
Hadith - 3
Narrated Sahl bin Sa`d As-Sa`idi: We were in the company of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) in (the battle of) Al-Khandaq, and he was digging the trench while we were carrying the earth away.
He looked at us and said, "O Allah! There is no life worth living except the life of the Hereafter, so (please) forgive the Ansar and the Emigrants."
Hadith - 4
Narrated Sahl: I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "A (small) place equal to an area occupied by a whip in Paradise is better than the (whole) world and whatever is in it; and an undertaking (journey) in the forenoon or in the afternoon for Allah's Cause, is better than the whole world and whatever is in it."
Hadith - 5
Narrated Mujahid: `Abdullah bin `Umar said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) took hold of my shoulder and said, 'Be in this world as if you were a stranger or a traveler.'"
The sub-narrator added: Ibn `Umar used to say, "If you survive till the evening, do not expect to be alive in the morning, and if you survive till the morning, do not expect to be alive in the evening, and take from your health for your sickness, and (take) from your life for your death."
Hadith - 6
Narrated `Abdullah: The Prophet (ﷺ) drew a square and then drew a line in the middle of it and let it extend outside the square, and then drew several small lines attached to that central line, and said, "This is the human being, and this, (the square) is his lease of life, encircles him from all sides (or has encircled him), and this (line), which is outside (the square), is his hope, and these small lines are the calamities and troubles (which may befall him), and if one misses him, another will snap (i.e. overtake) him, and if the other misses him, a third will snap (i.e. overtake) him."
Hadith - 7
Narrated Anas bin Malik: The Prophet (ﷺ) drew a few lines and said, "This is (man's) hope, and this is the instant of his death, and while he is in this state (of hope), the nearer line (death) comes to Him."
Hadith - 8
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Allah will not accept the excuse of any person whose instant of death is delayed till he is sixty years of age."
Hadith - 9
Narrated Abu Huraira: I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "The heart of an old man remains young in two respects, i.e., his love for the world (its wealth, amusements and luxuries) and his incessant hope."
Hadith - 10
Narrated Anas bin Malik: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The son of Adam (i.e. man) grows old and so also two (desires) grow old with him, i.e., love for wealth and (a wish for) a long life."
Hadith - 11
Narrated Mahmud bin Ar-Rabi'a: I remember that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) took water from a bucket (which was in our home used for getting water out of well) with his mouth (and threw it on my face).
Hadith - 12
Narrated `Itban bin Malik Al-Ansari, who was one of the men of the tribe of Bani Salim: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) came to me and said, "If anybody comes on the Day of Resurrection who has said: 'None has the right to be worshipped except Allah,' sincerely, with the intention to win Allah's Pleasure, Allah will make the Hell-Fire forbidden for him."
Hadith - 13
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Allah says, 'I have nothing to give but Paradise as a reward to my believer slave, who, if I cause his dear friend (or relative) to die, remains patient (and hopes for Allah's Reward).'"
Hadith - 14
Narrated `Amr bin `Auf (An ally of the tribe of Bani 'Amir bin Lu'ai and one of those who had witnessed the battle of Badr with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)): Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) sent Abu 'Ubaida bin Al-Jarrah to Bahrain to collect the Jizya tax.
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had concluded a peace treaty with the people of Bahrain and appointed Al-'Ala bin Al-Hadrami as their chief. Abu Ubaida arrived from Bahrain with the money.
The Ansar heard of Abu 'Ubaida's arrival which coincided with the Fajr (morning) prayer led by Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). When the Prophet (ﷺ) finished the prayer, they came to him.
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) smiled when he saw them and said, "I think you have heard of the arrival of Abu 'Ubaida and that he has brought something." They replied, "Yes, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)!" He said, "Have the good news, and hope for what will please you.
By Allah, I am not afraid that you will become poor, but I am afraid that worldly wealth will be given to you in abundance as it was given to those (nations) before you, and you will start competing each other for it as the previous nations competed for it, and then it will divert you (from good) as it diverted them."
Hadith - 15
Narrated `Uqba bin 'Amir: The Prophet (ﷺ) went out and offered the funeral prayer for the martyrs of the (battle of) Uhud and then ascended the pulpit and said, "I am your predecessor and I am a witness against you.
By Allah, I am now looking at my Tank-lake (Al-Kauthar) and I have been given the keys of the treasures of the earth (or the keys of the earth). By Allah! I am not afraid that after me you will worship others besides Allah, but I am afraid that you will start competing for (the pleasures of) this world."
Hadith - 16
Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The thing I am afraid of most for your sake, is the worldly blessings which Allah will bring forth to you." It was said, "What are the blessings of this world?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The pleasures of the world."
A man said, "Can the good bring forth evil?" The Prophet (ﷺ) kept quiet for a while till we thought that he was being inspired divinely. Then he started removing the sweat from his forehead and said, "Where is the questioner?" That man said, "I (am present)."
Abu Sa`id added: We thanked the man when the result (of his question) was such.
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Good never brings forth but good. This wealth (of the world) is (like) green and sweet (fruit), and all the vegetation which grows on the bank of a stream either kills or nearly kills the animal that eats too much of it, except the animal that eats the Khadira (a kind of vegetation).
Such an animal eats till its stomach is full and then it faces the sun and starts ruminating and then it passes out dung and urine and goes to eat again.
This worldly wealth is (like) sweet (fruit), and if a person earns it (the wealth) in a legal way and spends it properly, then it is an excellent helper, and whoever earns it in an illegal way, he will be like the one who eats but is never satisfied."
Hadith - 17
Narrated Zahdam bin Mudarrib: `Imran bin Husain said: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The best people are my contemporaries (i.e., the present (my) generation) and then those who come after them (i.e., the next generation)."
`Imran added: I am not sure whether the Prophet (ﷺ) repeated the statement twice after his first saying.
The Prophet (ﷺ) added, "And after them there will come people who will bear witness, though they will not be asked to give their witness; and they will be treacherous and nobody will trust them, and they will make vows, but will not fulfill them, and fatness will appear among them."
Hadith - 18
Narrated `Abdullah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The best people are those of my generation, and then those who will come after them (the next generation), and then those who will come after them (i.e. the next generation), and then after them there will come people whose witness will precede their oaths, and whose oaths will precede their witness."
Hadith - 19
Narrated Qais: I heard Khabbab, who had branded his abdomen with seven brands, saying, "Had Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) not forbidden us to invoke Allah for death, I would have invoked Allah for death.
The companions of Muhammad have left this world without taking anything of their reward in it (i.e., they will have perfect reward in the Hereafter), but we have collected of the worldly wealth what we cannot spend but on earth (i.e. on building houses)."
Hadith - 20
Narrated Qais: I came to Khabbab while he was building a wall, and he (Khabbab) said, "Our companions who have left this world did not enjoy anything of their reward therein, while we have collected after them much wealth that we cannot spend but on earth (i.e., on building)."
Hadith - 21
Narrated Khabbab: We migrated with the Prophet...(This narration is related in the chapter of migration).
Hadith - 22
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: I brought water to `Uthman bin `Affan to perform the ablution while he was sitting on his seat.
He performed the ablution in a perfect way and said, "I saw the Prophet (ﷺ) performing the ablution in this place and he performed it in a perfect way and said, "Whoever performs the ablution as I have done this time and then proceeds to the mosque and offers a two-rak`at prayer and then sits there (waiting for the compulsory congregational prayers), then all his past sins will be forgiven."
The Prophet (ﷺ) further added, "Do not be conceited (thinking that your sins will be forgiven because of your prayer)."
Hadith - 23
Narrated Mirdas Al-Aslami: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The righteous (pious) people will depart (die) in succession one after the other, and there will remain (on the earth) useless people like the useless husk of barley seeds or bad dates."
Hadith - 24
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Perish the slave of Dinar, Dirham, Qatifa (thick soft cloth), and Khamisa (a garment), for if he is given, he is pleased; otherwise he is dissatisfied."
Hadith - 25
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "If the son of Adam (the human being) had two valleys of money, he would wish for a third, for nothing can fill the belly of Adam's son except dust, and Allah forgives him who repents to Him."
Hadith - 26
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "If the son of Adam had money equal to a valley, then he will wish for another similar to it, for nothing can satisfy the eye of Adam's son except dust. And Allah forgives him who repents to Him."
Ibn `Abbas said: "I do not know whether this saying was quoted from the Qur'an or not."
`Ata' said, "I heard Ibn Az-Zubair saying this narration while he was on the pulpit."
Hadith - 27
Narrated Sahl bin Sa`d: I heard Ibn Az-Zubair who was on the pulpit at Mecca, delivering a sermon, saying, 'O men! The Prophet used to say, "If the son of Adam were given a valley full of gold, he would love to have a second one; and if he were given the second one, he would love to have a third, for nothing fills the belly of Adam's son except dust. And Allah forgives he who repents to Him."'
Ubai said, "We considered this as a saying from the Qur'an till the Sura (beginning with) 'The mutual rivalry for piling up of worldly things diverts you...' (Surah 102: Ayah 1) was revealed."
Hadith - 28
Narrated Anas bin Malik: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If Adam's son had a valley full of gold, he would like to have two valleys, for nothing fills his mouth except dust. And Allah forgives him who repents to Him."
Hadith - 29
Ubayy said (referring to the hadith above): We considered this as a saying from the Qur'an till the Surah (beginning with): "The mutual rivalry (for piling up of worldly things) diverts you," (Surah 102: Ayah 1) was revealed.
Hadith - 30
Narrated Hakim bin Hizam: I asked the Prophet (for some money) and he gave me, and then again I asked him and he gave me, and then again I asked him and he gave me, and he then said, "This wealth is (like) green and sweet (fruit), and whoever takes it without greed, Allah will bless it for him, but whoever takes it with greed, Allah will not bless it for him, and he will be like the one who eats but is never satisfied.
And the upper (giving) hand is better than the lower (taking) hand."
Hadith - 31
Narrated `Abdullah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Who among you considers the wealth of his heirs dearer to him than his own wealth?" They replied, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! There is none among us but loves his own wealth more."
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "So his wealth is whatever he spends (in Allah's Cause) during his life (on good deeds), while the wealth of his heirs is whatever he leaves after his death."
Hadith - 32
Narrated Abu Dhar: Once I went out at night and found Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) walking all alone accompanied by nobody, and I thought that perhaps he disliked that someone should accompany him.
So I walked in the shade, away from the moonlight, but the Prophet (ﷺ) looked behind and saw me and said, "Who is that?" I replied, "Abu Dhar, let Allah get me sacrificed for you!"
He said, "O Abu Dhar, come here!" So I accompanied him for a while and then he said, "The rich are in fact the poor (little rewarded) on the Day of Resurrection except him whom Allah gives wealth which he gives (in charity) to his right, left, front and back, and does good deeds with it."
I walked with him a little longer. Then he said to me, "Sit down here." So he made me sit in an open space surrounded by rocks, and said to me, "Sit here till I come back to you."
He went towards Al-Harra till I could not see him, and he stayed away for a long period, and then I heard him saying, while he was coming, "Even if he had committed theft, and even if he had committed illegal sexual intercourse?"
When he came, I could not remain patient and asked him, "O Allah's Prophet! Let Allah get me sacrificed for you! Whom were you speaking to by the side of Al-Harra? I did not hear anybody responding to your talk."
He said, "It was Gabriel who appeared to me beside Al-Harra and said, 'Give the good news to your followers that whoever dies without having worshipped anything besides Allah, will enter Paradise.'
I said, 'O Gabriel! Even if he had committed theft or committed illegal sexual intercourse?' He said, 'Yes.'
I said, 'Even if he has committed theft or committed illegal sexual intercourse?' He said, 'Yes.'
I said, 'Even if he has committed theft or committed illegal sexual intercourse?' He said, 'Yes.'"
Hadith - 33
Narrated Abu Dhar: While I was walking with the Prophet (ﷺ) in the Harra of Medina, Uhud came in sight. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O Abu Dhar!" I said, "Labbaik, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)!"
He said, "I would not like to have gold equal to this mountain of Uhud, unless nothing of it, not even a single Dinar of it, remains with me for more than three days except something which I will keep for repaying debts.
I would have spent all of it (distributed it) amongst Allah's Slaves like this, and like this, and like this." The Prophet (ﷺ) pointed out with his hand towards his right, his left and his back (while illustrating it).
He proceeded with his walk and said, "The rich are in fact the poor (little rewarded) on the Day of Resurrection except those who spend their wealth like this, and like this, and like this, to their right, left and back, but such people are few in number."
Then he said to me, "Stay at your place and do not leave it till I come back." Then he proceeded in the darkness of the night till he went out of sight, and then I heard a loud voice, and was afraid that something might have happened to the Prophet (ﷺ).
I intended to go to him, but I remembered what he had said to me, i.e. 'Don't leave your place till I come back to you,' so I remained at my place till he came back to me.
I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! I heard a voice and I was afraid." So I mentioned the whole story to him. He said, "Did you hear it?" I replied, "Yes."
He said, "It was Gabriel who came to me and said, 'Whoever died without joining others in worship with Allah, will enter Paradise.'
I asked (Gabriel), 'Even if he had committed theft or committed illegal sexual intercourse?' Gabriel said, 'Yes, even if he had committed theft or committed illegal sexual intercourse.'"
Hadith - 34
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Apostle said, "If I had gold equal to the mountain of Uhud, it would not please me that anything of it should remain with me after three nights (i.e., I would spend all of it in Allah's Cause) except what I would keep for repaying debts."
Hadith - 35
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Wealth is not in having many possessions, but rather (true) wealth is feeling sufficiency in the soul."
Hadith - 36
Narrated Sahl bin Sa`d As-Sa`idi: A man passed by Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and the Prophet (ﷺ) asked a man sitting beside him, "What is your opinion about this (passer-by)?"
He replied, "This (passer-by) is from the noble class of people. By Allah, if he should ask for a lady's hand in marriage, he ought to be given her in marriage, and if he intercedes for somebody, his intercession will be accepted."
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) kept quiet, and then another man passed by and Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) asked the same man (his companion) again, "What is your opinion about this (second) one?"
He said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! This person is one of the poor Muslims. If he should ask a lady's hand in marriage, no-one will accept him, and if he intercedes for somebody, no one will accept his intercession, and if he talks, no-one will listen to his talk."
Then Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "This (poor man) is better than such a large number of the first type (i.e. rich men) as to fill the earth."
Hadith - 37
Narrated Abu Wa'il: We paid a visit to Khabbab who was sick, and he said, "We migrated with the Prophet (ﷺ) for Allah's Sake and our wages became due on Allah.
Some of us died without having received anything of the wages, and one of them was Mus`ab bin `Umair, who was martyred on the day of the battle of Uhud, leaving only one sheet (to shroud him in).
If we covered his head with it, his feet became uncovered, and if we covered his feet with it, his head became uncovered. So the Prophet (ﷺ) ordered us to cover his head with it and put some Idhkhir (a kind of grass) over his feet.
On the other hand, some of us have had the fruits (of our good deeds) and are plucking them (in this world)."
Hadith - 38
Narrated `Imran bin Husain: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I looked into Paradise and found that the majority of its dwellers were the poor people, and I looked into the (Hell) Fire and found that the majority of its dwellers were women."
Hadith - 39
Narrated Anas: The Prophet (ﷺ) did not eat at a table till he died, and he did not eat a thin nicely baked wheat bread till he died.
Hadith - 40
Narrated `Aisha: When the Prophet (ﷺ) died, nothing which can be eaten by a living creature was left on my shelf except some barley grain. I ate of it for a period and when I measured it, it finished.
Hadith - 41
Narrated Abu Huraira: By Allah except Whom none has the right to be worshipped, (sometimes) I used to lay (sleep) on the ground on my liver (abdomen) because of hunger, and (sometimes) I used to bind a stone over my belly because of hunger.
One day I sat by the way from where they (the Prophet (ﷺ) and his companions) used to come out.
When Abu Bakr passed by, I asked him about a Verse from Allah's Book, and I asked him only that he might satisfy my hunger, but he passed by and did not do so.
Then `Umar passed by me and I asked him about a Verse from Allah's Book, and I asked him only that he might satisfy my hunger, but he passed by without doing so.
Finally Abul-Qasim (the Prophet (ﷺ)) passed by me and he smiled when he saw me, for he knew what was in my heart and on my face. He said, "O Aba Hirr (Abu Huraira)!" I replied, "Labbaik, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)!" He said to me, "Follow me."
He left and I followed him. Then he entered the house and I asked permission to enter and was admitted. He found milk in a bowl and said, "From where is this milk?" They said, "It has been presented to you by such-and-such man (or by such-and-such woman)."
He said, "O Aba Hirr!" I said, "Labbaik, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)!" He said, "Go and call the people of Suffa to me."
These people of Suffa were the guests of Islam who had no families, nor money, nor anybody to depend upon, and whenever an object of charity was brought to the Prophet, he would send it to them and would not take anything from it, and whenever any present was given to him, he used to send some for them and take some of it for himself.
The order of the Prophet upset me, and I said to myself, "How will this little milk be enough for the people of As-Suffa, though I was more entitled to drink from that milk in order to strengthen myself?", but behold! The Prophet (ﷺ) came to order me to give that milk to them.
I wondered what will remain of that milk for me, but anyway, I could not but obey Allah and His Apostle so I went to the people of As-Suffa and called them, and they came and asked the Prophet's permission to enter. They were admitted and took their seats in the house.
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O Aba-Hirr!" I said, "Labbaik, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)!" He said, "Take it and give it to them."
So I took the bowl (of milk) and started giving it to one man who would drink his fill and return it to me, whereupon I would give it to another man who, in his turn, would drink his fill and return it to me, and I would then offer it to another man who would drink his fill and return it to me.
Finally, after the whole group had drunk their fill, I reached the Prophet (ﷺ) who took the bowl and put it on his hand, looked at me and smiled and said, "O Aba Hirr!" I replied, "Labbaik, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)!"
He said, "There remain you and I." I said, "You have said the truth, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)!" He said, "Sit down and drink." I sat down and drank. He said, "Drink," and I drank. He kept on telling me repeatedly to drink, till I said, "No, by Allah Who sent you with the Truth, I have no space for it (in my stomach)."
He said, "Hand it over to me." When I gave him the bowl, he praised Allah and pronounced Allah's Name on it and drank the remaining milk.
Hadith - 42
Narrated Sa`d: I was the first man among the Arabs to throw an arrow for Allah's Cause. We used to fight in Allah's Cause while we had nothing to eat except the leaves of the Hubla and the Samur trees (desert trees) so that we discharged excrement like that of sheep (i.e. unmixed droppings).
Today the (people of the) tribe of Bani Asad teach me the laws of Islam. If so, then I am lost, and all my efforts of that hard time had gone in vain.
Hadith - 43
Narrated `Aisha: The family of Muhammad had never eaten their fill of wheat bread for three successive days since they had migrated to Medina till the death of the Prophet.
Hadith - 44
Narrated `Aisha: The family of Muhammad did not eat two meals on one day, but one of the two was of dates.
Hadith - 45
Narrated `Aisha: The bed mattress of the Prophet (ﷺ) was made of a leather case stuffed with palm fibres.
Hadith - 46
Narrated Qatada: We used to go to Anas bin Malik and see his baker standing (preparing the bread). Anas said, "Eat. I have not known that the Prophet (ﷺ) ever saw a thin well-baked loaf of bread till he died, and he never saw a roasted sheep with his eyes."
Hadith - 47
Narrated `Aisha: A complete month would pass by during which we would not make a fire (for cooking), and our food used to be only dates and water, unless we were given a present of some meat.
Hadith - 48
Narrated `Aisha: That she said to `Urwa, "O, the son of my sister! We used to see three crescents in two months, and no fire used to be made in the houses of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (i.e. nothing used to be cooked)."
`Urwa said, "What used to sustain you?" `Aisha said, "The two black things, i.e. dates and water, except that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had neighbors from the Ansar who had some milch she-camels, and they used to give the Prophet (ﷺ) some milk from their house, and he used to make us drink it."
Hadith - 49
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "O Allah! Give food to the family of Muhammad."
Hadith - 50
Narrated Masruq: I asked `Aisha, "What deed was the most beloved to the Prophet (ﷺ)?" She said, "The regular constant one."
I said, "At what time did he use to get up at night (for the Tahajjud night prayer)?" She said, "He used to get up on hearing (the crowing of) the cock (the last third of the night)."
Hadith - 51
Narrated `Aisha: The most beloved action to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was that whose doer did it continuously and regularly.
Hadith - 52
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The deeds of anyone of you will not save you (from the (Hell) Fire)." They said, "Even you (will not be saved by your deeds), O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)?"
He said, "No, even I (will not be saved) unless and until Allah bestows His Mercy on me. Therefore, do good deeds properly, sincerely and moderately, and worship Allah in the forenoon and in the afternoon and during a part of the night, and always adopt a middle, moderate, regular course whereby you will reach your target (Paradise)."
Hadith - 53
Narrated `Aisha: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Do good deeds properly, sincerely and moderately and know that your deeds will not make you enter Paradise, and that the most beloved deed to Allah is the most regular and constant, even if it were little."
Hadith - 54
Narrated `Aisha: The Prophet (ﷺ) was asked, "What deeds are loved most by Allah?" He said, "The most regular constant deeds even though they may be few." He added, "Don't take upon yourselves, except the deeds which are within your ability."
Hadith - 55
Narrated 'Alqama: I asked `Aisha, mother of the believers, "O mother of the believers! How were the deeds of the Prophet (ﷺ)? Did he use to do extra deeds of worship on special days?"
She said, "No, but his deeds were regular and constant, and who among you is able to do what the Prophet (ﷺ) was able to do (i.e. in worshipping Allah)?"
Hadith - 56
Narrated `Aisha: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Do good deeds properly, sincerely and moderately, and receive good news because one's good deeds will not make him enter Paradise."
They asked, "Even you, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)?" He said, "Even I, unless and until Allah bestows His pardon and Mercy on me."
Hadith - 57
Narrated Anas bin Malik: Once Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) led us in prayer and then (after finishing it) ascended the pulpit and pointed with his hand towards the Qibla of the mosque and said, "While I was leading you in prayer, both Paradise and Hell were displayed in front of me in the direction of this wall.
I had never seen a better thing (than Paradise) and a worse thing (than Hell) as I have seen today, I had never seen a better thing and a worse thing as I have seen today."
Hadith - 58
Narrated Abu Huraira: I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "Verily Allah created Mercy. The day He created it, He made it into one hundred parts. He withheld with Him ninety-nine parts, and sent its one part to all His creatures.
Had the non-believer known of all the Mercy which is in the Hands of Allah, he would not lose hope of entering Paradise, and had the believer known of all the punishment which is present with Allah, he would not consider himself safe from the Hell-Fire."
Hadith - 59
Narrated Abu Sa`id: Some people from the Ansar asked Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (to give them something) and he gave to everyone of them who asked him, until all that he had was finished.
When everything was finished and he had spent all that was in his hand, he said to them, "(Know) that if I have any wealth, I will not withhold it from you (to keep for somebody else).
And (know) that he who refrains from begging others (or doing prohibited deeds), Allah will make him contented and not in need of others; and he who remains patient, Allah will bestow patience upon him, and he who is satisfied with what he has, Allah will make him self-sufficient.
And there is no gift better and vast (you may be given) than patience."
Hadith - 60
Narrated Al-Mughira bin Shu`ba: The Prophet (ﷺ) used to pray so much that his feet used to become edematous or swollen, and when he was asked as to why he prays so much, he would say, "Shall I not be a thankful slave (to Allah)?"
Hadith - 61
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Seventy thousand people of my followers will enter Paradise without accounts, and they are those who do not practice Ar-Ruqya, and do not see an evil omen in things, and put their trust in their Lord."
Hadith - 62
Narrated Warrad (the clerk of Al-Mughira bin Shu`ba): Muawiya wrote to Al-Mughira: "Write to me a narration you have heard from Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)."
So Al-Mughira wrote to him, "I heard him saying the following after each prayer (what means): 'There is no god but Allah. He is alone and there is no partner with Him. Sovereignty belongs to Him and to Him is praise due and He is Potent over everything.'
He also used to forbid idle talk, asking too many questions (in religion), wasting money, preventing what should be given, and asking others for something (except in great need), being undutiful to mothers, and burying one's little daughters (alive)."
Hadith - 63
Narrated Sahl bin Sa`d: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Whoever can guarantee (the chastity of) what is between his two jaw-bones and what is between his two legs (i.e. his tongue and his private parts), I guarantee Paradise for him."
Hadith - 64
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Whoever believes in Allah and the Last Day should talk what is good or keep quiet; and whoever believes in Allah and the Last Day should not hurt (or insult) his neighbor; and whoever believes in Allah and the Last Day should entertain his guest generously."
Hadith - 65
Narrated Abu Shuraih Al-Khuza`i: My ears heard and my heart grasped (the statement which) the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The period for keeping one's guest is three days (and don't forget) his reward." It was asked, "What is his reward?"
He said, "In the first night and the day he should be given a high class quality of meals; and whoever believes in Allah and the Last Day should entertain his guest generously; and whoever believes in Allah and the Last Day should talk what is good (sense) or keep quiet."
Hadith - 66
Narrated Abu Huraira: That he heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "A slave of Allah may utter a word without thinking whether it is right or wrong, due to which he may slip down in the Fire as far away a distance equal to that between the east and the west."
Hadith - 67
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "A slave (of Allah) may utter a word which pleases Allah without giving it much importance, and because of that Allah will raise him to degrees (of reward).
A slave (of Allah) may utter a word (carelessly) which displeases Allah without thinking of its gravity, and because of that he will be thrown into the Hell-Fire."
Hadith - 68
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Allah will give shade to seven (types of people) under His Shade (on the Day of Resurrection). (One of them will be) a person who remembers Allah and his eyes are then flooded with tears."
Hadith - 69
Narrated Hudhaifa: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "There was a man amongst the people who had suspicion as to the righteousness of his deeds. Therefore he said to his family, 'If I die, take me and burn my corpse and throw my ashes into the sea on a hot (or windy) day.'
They did so, but Allah, collected his particles and asked (him), 'What made you do what you did?' He replied, 'The only thing that made me do it, was that I was afraid of You.' So Allah forgave him."
Hadith - 70
Narrated Abu Sa`id: The Prophet (ﷺ) mentioned a man from the previous generation or from the people preceding your age whom Allah had given both wealth and children.
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "When the time of his death approached, he asked his children, 'What type of father have I been to you?' They replied, 'You have been a good father.' He said, 'But he (i.e. your father) has not stored any good deeds with Allah (for the Hereafter): if he should face Allah, Allah will punish him.
So listen, (O my children), when I die, burn my body till I become mere coal and then grind it into powder, and when there is a stormy wind, throw me (my ashes) in it.'
So he took a firm promise from his children (to follow his instructions). And by Allah they (his sons) did accordingly (fulfilled their promise.)
Then Allah said, "Be", and behold! That man was standing there! Allah then said, "O my slave! What made you do what you did?" That man said, "Fear of You." So Allah forgave him.
Hadith - 71
Narrated Abu Musa: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, 'My example and the example of the message with which Allah has sent me is like that of a man who came to some people and said, "I have seen with my own eyes the enemy forces, and I am a naked warner (to you) so save yourself, save yourself!"
A group of them obeyed him and went out at night, slowly and stealthily and were safe, while another group did not believe him and thus the army took them in the morning and destroyed them.'
Hadith - 72
Narrated Abu Huraira: I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "My example and the example of the people is that of a man who made a fire, and when it lighted what was around it, moths and other insects started falling into the fire.
The man tried (his best) to prevent them, (from falling in the fire) but they overpowered him and rushed into the fire."
The Prophet (ﷺ) added: "Now, similarly, I take hold of the knots at your waist (belts) to prevent you from falling into the Fire, but you insist on falling into it."
Hadith - 73
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Amr: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "A Muslim is the one who avoids harming Muslims with his tongue or his hands. And a Muhajir (an emigrant) is the one who gives up (abandons) all what Allah has forbidden."
Hadith - 74
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If you knew that which I know, you would laugh little and weep much."
Hadith - 75
Narrated Anas: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If you knew that which I know, you would laugh little and weep much."
Hadith - 76
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The (Hell) Fire is surrounded by all kinds of desires and passions, while Paradise is surrounded by all kinds of disliked undesirable things."
Hadith - 77
Narrated `Abdullah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Paradise is nearer to any of you than the Shirak (leather strap) of his shoe, and so is the (Hell) Fire."
Hadith - 78
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The truest poetic verse ever said by a poet, is: Indeed! Everything, except Allah, is perishable."