Hadith - 79
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If anyone of you looked at a person who was made superior to him in property and (in good) appearance, then he should also look at the one who is inferior to him."
Hadith - 80
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: The Prophet (ﷺ) narrating about his Lord, and said, "Allah ordered (the appointed angels over you) that the good and the bad deeds be written, and He then showed (the way) how (to write).
If somebody intends to do a good deed and he does not do it, then Allah will write for him a full good deed (in his account with Him); and if he intends to do a good deed and actually did it, then Allah will write for him (in his account) with Him (its reward equal) from ten to seven hundred times to many more times.
And if somebody intended to do a bad deed and he does not do it, then Allah will write a full good deed (in his account) with Him, and if he intended to do it (a bad deed) and actually did it, then Allah will write one bad deed (in his account)."
Hadith - 81
Narrated Ghailan: Anas said, "You people do (bad) deeds (commit sins) which seem in your eyes as tiny (minute) than hair, while we used to consider those (very deeds) during the life-time of the Prophet (ﷺ) as destructive sins."
Hadith - 82
Narrated Sahl bin Sa`d As-Sa`idi: The Prophet (ﷺ) looked at a man fighting against the pagans and he was one of the most competent persons fighting on behalf of the Muslims.
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Let him who wants to look at a man from the dwellers of the (Hell) Fire, look at this (man)."
Another man followed him and kept on following him till he (the fighter) was injured and, seeking to die quickly, he placed the blade tip of his sword between his breasts and leaned over it till it passed through his shoulders (i.e., committed suicide)."
The Prophet (ﷺ) added, "A person may do deeds that seem to the people as the deeds of the people of Paradise, while in fact he is from the dwellers of the (Hell) Fire: and similarly a person may do deeds that seem to the people as the deeds of the people of the (Hell) Fire, while in fact he is from the dwellers of Paradise.
Verily, the (results of) deeds done depend upon the last actions."
Hadith - 83
Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri: A bedouin came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Who is the best of mankind?"
The Prophet said, "A man who strives for Allah's Cause with his life and property, and also a man who lives (all alone) in a mountain path among the mountain paths to worship his Lord and save the people from his evil."
Hadith - 84
Narrated Abu Sa`id: I heard from the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "There will come a time upon the people when the best property of a Muslim will be sheep which he will take to the tops of mountains and to the places of rainfall, running away with his religion (in order to save it) from afflictions."
Hadith - 85
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "When honesty is lost, then wait for the Hour." It was asked, "How will honesty be lost, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)?" He said, "When authority is given to those who do not deserve it, then wait for the Hour."
Hadith - 86
Narrated Hudhaifa: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) narrated to us two narrations, one of which I have seen (happening) and I am waiting for the other.
He narrated that honesty was preserved in the roots of the hearts of men (in the beginning) and then they learnt it (honesty) from the Qur'an, and then they learnt it from the (Prophet's) Sunna (tradition).
He also told us about its disappearance, saying, "A man will go to sleep whereupon honesty will be taken away from his heart, and only its trace will remain, resembling the traces of fire.
He then will sleep whereupon the remainder of the honesty will also be taken away (from his heart) and its trace will resemble a blister which is raised over the surface of skin, when an ember touches one's foot; and in fact, this blister does not contain anything.
So there will come a day when people will deal in business with each other but there will hardly be any trustworthy persons among them.
Then it will be said that in such-and-such a tribe there is such-and-such person who is honest, and a man will be admired for his intelligence, good manners and strength, though indeed he will not have belief equal to a mustard seed in his heart."
The narrator added: "There came upon me a time when I did not mind dealing with anyone of you, for if he was a Muslim, his religion would prevent him from cheating; and if he was a Christian, his Muslim ruler would prevent him from cheating; but today I cannot deal except with so-and-so and so-and-so."
Hadith - 87
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar: I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "People are just like camels, out of one hundred, one can hardly find a single camel suitable to ride."
Hadith - 88
Narrated Jundub: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "He who lets the people hear of his good deeds intentionally to win their praise, Allah will let the people know his real intention (on the Day of Resurrection), and he who does good things in public to show off and win the praise of the people, Allah will disclose his real intention (and humiliate him)."
Hadith - 89
Narrated Mu`adh bin Jabal: While I was riding behind the Prophet (ﷺ) as a companion rider and there was nothing between me and him except the back of the saddle, he said, "O Mu`adh!" I replied, "Labbaik O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! And Sa`daik!"
He proceeded for a while and then said, "O Mu`adh!" I said, "Labbaik and Sa`daik, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)!" He then proceeded for another while and said, "O Mu`adh bin Jabal!" I replied, "Labbaik, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), and Sa`daik!"
He said, "Do you know what is Allah's right on His slaves?" I replied, "Allah and His Apostle know better." He said, "Allah's right on his slaves is that they should worship Him and not worship anything besides Him."
He then proceeded for a while, and again said, "O Mu`adh bin Jabal!" I replied, "Labbaik, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), and Sa`daik." He said, "Do you know what is (Allah's) slaves' (people's) right on Allah if they did that?" I replied, "Allah and His Apostle know better."
He said, "The right of (Allah's) slaves on Allah is that He should not punish them (if they did that)."
Hadith - 90
Narrated Anas: The Prophet (ﷺ) had a she-camel called Al-`Adba' and it was too fast to surpass in speed. There came a bedouin riding a camel of his, and that camel outstripped it (i.e. Al-Adba'). That result was hard on the Muslims who said sorrowfully, "Al-Adba has been outstripped."
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "It is due from Allah that nothing would be raised high in this world except that He lowers or puts it down."
Hadith - 91
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Allah said, 'I will declare war against him who shows hostility to a pious worshipper of Mine.
And the most beloved things with which My slave comes nearer to Me, is what I have enjoined upon him; and My slave keeps on coming closer to Me through performing Nawafil (praying or doing extra deeds besides what is obligatory) till I love him, so I become his sense of hearing with which he hears, and his sense of sight with which he sees, and his hand with which he grips, and his leg with which he walks.
And if he asks Me, I will give him, and if he asks My protection (Refuge), I will protect him; (i.e. give him My Refuge) and I do not hesitate to do anything as I hesitate to take the soul of the believer, for he hates death, and I hate to disappoint him.'"
Hadith - 92
Narrated Sahl: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "I have been sent and the Hour (is at hand) as these two," showing his two fingers and sticking (separating) them out.
Hadith - 93
Narrated Anas: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "I have been sent and the Hour (is at hand) as these two (fingers)."
Hadith - 94
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I have been sent and the Hour (is at hand) as these two (fingers)."
Hadith - 95
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The Hour will not be established till the sun rises from the west, and when it rises (from the west) and the people see it, then all of them will believe (in Allah).
But that will be the time when, 'No good it will do to a soul to believe then, if it believed not before..."' (Surah 6: Ayah 158)
The Hour will be established (so suddenly) that two persons spreading a garment between them will not be able to finish their bargain, nor will they be able to fold it up.
The Hour will be established while a man is carrying the milk of his she-camel, but cannot drink it; and the Hour will be established when someone is not able to prepare the tank to water his livestock from it; and the Hour will be established when some of you has raised his food to his mouth but cannot eat it."
Hadith - 96
Narrated 'Ubada bin As-Samit: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Who-ever loves to meet Allah, Allah (too) loves to meet him, and who-ever hates to meet Allah, Allah (too) hates to meet him".
`Aisha, or some of the wives of the Prophet (ﷺ), said, "But we dislike death."
He said: "It is not like this, but it is meant that when the time of the death of a believer approaches, he receives the good news of Allah's pleasure with him and His blessings upon him, and so at that time nothing is dearer to him than what is in front of him. He therefore loves the meeting with Allah, and Allah (too) loves the meeting with him.
But when the time of the death of a disbeliever approaches, he receives the evil news of Allah's torment and His Requital, whereupon nothing is more hateful to him than what is before him. Therefore, he hates the meeting with Allah, and Allah too, hates the meeting with him."
Hadith - 97
Narrated Abu Musa: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: "Whoever loves to meet Allah, Allah loves to meet him; and whoever hates to meet Allah, Allah hates to meet him."
Hadith - 98
Narrated `Aisha (the wife of the Prophet): When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was in good health, he used to say, "No prophet's soul is ever captured unless he is shown his place in Paradise and given the option (to die or survive)."
So when the death of the Prophet (ﷺ) approached and his head was on my thigh, he became unconscious for a while and then he came to his senses and fixed his eyes on the ceiling and said, "O Allah (with) the highest companions." (See Qur'an, Surah 4: Ayah 69).
I said, "Hence he is not going to choose us." And I came to know that it was the application of the narration which he (the Prophet) used to narrate to us.
And that was the last statement of the Prophet (before his death) i.e., "O Allah! With the highest companions." (See Qur'an, Surah 4: Ayah 69).
Hadith - 99
Narrated `Aisha: There was a leather or wood container full of water in front of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (at the time of his death). He would put his hand into the water and rub his face with it, saying, "None has the right to be worshipped but Allah! No doubt, death has its stupors."
Then he raised his hand and started saying, "(O Allah!) with the highest companions," (See Qur'an, Surah 4: Ayah 69) (and kept on saying it) till he expired and his hand dropped.
Hadith - 100
Narrated `Aisha: Some rough bedouins used to visit the Prophet (ﷺ) and ask him, "When will the Hour be?" He would look at the youngest of all of them and say, "If this should live till he is very old, your Hour (the death of the people addressed) will take place."
Hisham said that he meant (by the Hour), their death.
Hadith - 101
Narrated Abu Qatada bin Rib'i Al-Ansari: A funeral procession passed by Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) who said, "Relieved or relieving?" The people asked, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! What is relieved and relieving?"
He said, "A believer is relieved (by death) from the troubles and hardships of the world and leaves for the Mercy of Allah, while (the death of) a wicked person relieves the people, the land, the trees, (and) the animals from him."
Hadith - 102
Narrated Abu Qatada: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Relieved or relieving. And a believer is relieved (by death)."
Hadith - 103
Narrated Anas bin Malik: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "When carried to his grave, a dead person is followed by three, two of which return (after his burial) and one remains with him: his relative, his property, and his deeds follow him; relatives and his property go back while his deeds remain with him."
Hadith - 104
Narrated Ibn `Umar: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, 'When anyone of you dies, his destination is displayed before him in the forenoon and in the afternoon, either in the (Hell) Fire or in Paradise, and it is said to him, "That is your place till you are resurrected and sent to it."'
Hadith - 105
Narrated `Aisha: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Do not abuse the dead, for they have reached the result of what they have done."
Hadith - 106
Narrated Abu Huraira: Two men, a Muslim and a Jew, abused each other. The Muslim said, "By Him Who gave superiority to Muhammad over all the people." On that, the Jew said, "By Him Who gave superiority to Moses over all the people."
The Muslim became furious at that and slapped the Jew in the face. The Jew went to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and informed him of what had happened between him and the Muslim.
Allah's Apostle said, "Don't give me superiority over Moses, for the people will fall unconscious on the Day of Resurrection and I will be the first to gain consciousness, and behold! Moses will be there holding the side of Allah's Throne.
I will not know whether Moses has been among those people who have become unconscious and then has regained consciousness before me, or has been among those exempted by Allah from falling unconscious."
Hadith - 107
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The people will fall down unconscious at the time when they should fall down (i.e., on the Day of Resurrection), and then I will be the first man to get up, and behold, Moses will be there holding (Allah's) Throne.
I will not know whether he has been amongst those who have fallen unconscious."
Hadith - 108
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Allah will take the whole earth (in His Hand) and will roll up the Heaven in His right Hand, and then He will say, 'I am the King! Where are the kings of the earth?'"
Hadith - 109
Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The (planet of) earth will be a bread on the Day of Resurrection, and The Irresistible (Allah) will topple turn it with His Hand like anyone of you topple turns a bread with his hands while (preparing the bread) for a journey, and that bread will be the entertainment for the people of Paradise."
A man from the Jews came (to the Prophet) and said, "May The Beneficent (Allah) bless you, O Abul Qasim! Shall I tell you of the entertainment of the people of Paradise on the Day of Resurrection?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Yes."
The Jew said, "The earth will be a bread," as the Prophet (ﷺ) had said. Thereupon the Prophet (ﷺ) looked at us and smiled till his premolar tooth became visible.
Then the Jew further said, "Shall I tell you of the udm (additional food taken with bread) they will have with the bread?" He added, "That will be Balam and Nun."
The people asked, "What is that?" He said, "It is an ox and a fish, and seventy thousand people will eat of the caudate lobe (i.e. extra lobe) of their livers."
Hadith - 110
Narrated Sahl bin Sa`d: I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "The people will be gathered on the Day of Resurrection on reddish white land like a pure loaf of bread (made of pure fine flour)."
Sahl added: "That land will have no landmarks for anybody (to make use of)."
Hadith - 111
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The people will be gathered in three ways: (The first way will be of) those who will wish or have a hope (for Paradise) and will have a fear (of punishment).
(The second batch will be those who will gather) riding two on a camel or three on a camel or ten on a camel.
(The third batch) the rest of the people will be urged to gather by the Fire which will accompany them at the time of their afternoon nap and stay with them where they will spend the night, and will be with them in the morning wherever they may be then, and will be with them in the afternoon wherever they may be then."
Hadith - 112
Narrated Anas bin Malik: A man said, "O Allah's Prophet! Will a Kafir (disbeliever) be gathered (driven prone) on his face?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Is not He Who made him walk with his legs in this world, able to make him walk on his face on the Day of Resurrection?"
Qatada, a sub-narrator said: Yes, (He can), by the Power of Our Lord.
Hadith - 113
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "You will meet Allah barefooted, naked, walking on feet, and uncircumcised."
Hadith - 114
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) while he was delivering a sermon on a pulpit, saying, "You will meet Allah barefooted, naked, and uncircumcised."
Hadith - 115
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: The Prophet (ﷺ) stood up among us and addressed (saying), "You will be gathered barefooted, naked, and uncircumcised (as Allah says): 'As We began the first creation, We shall repeat it...' (Surah 21: Ayah 104)
And the first human being to be dressed on the Day of Resurrection will be (the Prophet) Abraham Al-Khalil.
Then will be brought some men of my followers who will be taken towards the left (i.e., to the Fire), and I will say: 'O Lord! My companions,' whereupon Allah will say: 'You do not know what they did after you left them.'
I will then say as the pious slave, Jesus said, 'And I was witness over them while I dwelt amongst them ...(up to)... the All-Wise.' (Surah 5: Ayat 117-118)."
The narrator added: Then it will be said that those people (renegated from Islam, that is) kept on turning on their heels (deserted Islam).
Hadith - 116
Narrated `Aisha: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The people will be gathered barefooted, naked, and uncircumcised." I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Will the men and the women look at each other?" He said, "The situation will be too hard for them to pay attention to that."
Hadith - 117
Narrated `Abdullah: While we were in the company of the Prophet (ﷺ) in a tent, he said, "Would it please you to be one fourth of the people of Paradise?" We said, "Yes." He said, "Would it please you to be one-third of the people of Paradise?" We said, "Yes." He said, "Would it please you to be half of the people of Paradise?" We said, "Yes."
Thereupon he said, "I hope that you will be one half of the people of Paradise, for none will enter Paradise but a Muslim soul, and you people, in comparison to the people who associate others in worship with Allah, are like a white hair on the skin of a black ox, or a black hair on the skin of a red ox."
Hadith - 118
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'The first man to be called on the Day of Resurrection will be Adam who will be shown his offspring, and it will be said to them, "This is your father, Adam." Adam will say (responding to the call), "Labbaik and Sa`daik."
Then Allah will say (to Adam), "Take out of your offspring the people of Hell." Adam will say, "O Lord, how many should I take out?" Allah will say, "Take out ninety-nine out of every hundred."'
They (the Prophet's companions) said, "O Allah's Apostle! If ninety-nine out of every one hundred of us are taken away, what will remain out of us?" He said, "My followers in comparison to the other nations are like a white hair on a black ox."
Hadith - 119
Narrated Abu Sa`id: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Allah will say, 'O Adam!' Adam will reply, 'Labbaik and Sa`daik (I respond to Your Calls, I am obedient to Your orders), wal Khair fi Yadaik (and all the good is in Your Hands)!'
Then Allah will say (to Adam), 'Bring out the people of the Fire.' Adam will say, 'What (how many) are the people of the Fire?' Allah will say, 'Out of every thousand (take out) nine hundred and ninety-nine (persons).'
At that time children will become hoary-headed and every pregnant female will drop her load (have an abortion) and you will see the people as if they were drunk, yet not drunk; but Allah's punishment will be very severe."
That news distressed the companions of the Prophet (ﷺ) too much, and they said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Who amongst us will be that man (the lucky one out of one-thousand who will be saved from the Fire)?"
He said, "Have the good news that one-thousand will be from Gog and Magog, and the one (to be saved will be) from you."
The Prophet (ﷺ) added, "By Him in Whose Hand my soul is, I hope that you (Muslims) will be one third of the people of Paradise." On that, we glorified and praised Allah and said, "Allahu Akbar."
The Prophet (ﷺ) then said, "By Him in Whose Hand my soul is, I hope that you will be one half of the people of Paradise, as your (Muslims) example in comparison to the other people (non-Muslims), is like that of a white hair on the skin of a black ox, or a round hairless spot on the foreleg of a donkey."
Hadith - 120
Narrated Ibn `Umar: The Prophet (ﷺ) said (regarding the Verse), "'A Day when all mankind will stand before the Lord of the Worlds,' (that day) they will stand, drowned in their sweat up to the middle of their ears."
Hadith - 121
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The people will sweat so profusely on the Day of Resurrection that their sweat will sink seventy cubits deep into the earth, and it will rise up till it reaches the people's mouths and ears."
Hadith - 122
Narrated `Abdullah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The cases which will be decided first (on the Day of Resurrection) will be the cases of blood-shedding."
Hadith - 123
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Whoever has wronged his brother, should ask for his pardon (before his death), as (in the Hereafter) there will be neither a Dinar nor a Dirham.
(He should secure pardon in this life) before some of his good deeds are taken and paid to his brother, or, if he has done no good deeds, some of the bad deeds of his brother are taken to be loaded on him (in the Hereafter)."
Hadith - 124
Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The believers, after being saved from the (Hell) Fire, will be stopped at a bridge between Paradise and Hell and mutual retaliation will be established among them regarding wrongs they have committed in the world against one another.
After they are cleansed and purified (through the retaliation), they will be admitted into Paradise; and by Him in Whose Hand Muhammad's soul is, everyone of them will know his dwelling in Paradise better than he knew his dwelling in this world."
Hadith - 125
Narrated Ibn Abi Mulaika: `Aisha said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'Anybody whose account (record) is questioned will surely be punished.' I said, 'Doesn't Allah say: "He surely will receive an easy reckoning?"' (Surah 84: Ayah 8). The Prophet (ﷺ) replied, 'This means only the presentation of the account.'
Narrated `Aisha: The Prophet (ﷺ) said (as above).
Hadith - 126
Narrated `Aisha: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "None will be called to account on the Day of Resurrection, but will be ruined." I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Hasn't Allah said: 'Then as for him who will be given his record in his right hand, he surely will receive an easy reckoning?' (Surah 84: Ayat 7-8)"
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "That (Verse) means only the presentation of the accounts, but anybody whose account (record) is questioned on the Day of Resurrection, will surely be punished."
Hadith - 127
Narrated Anas bin Malik: Allah's Prophet used to say, 'A disbeliever will be brought on the Day of Resurrection and will be asked, "Suppose you had as much gold as to fill the earth, would you offer it to ransom yourself?" He will reply, "Yes."
Then it will be said to him, "You were asked for something easier than that (to join none in worship with Allah (i.e. to accept Islam) but you refused)."'
Hadith - 128
Narrated `Adi bin Hatim: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "There will be none among you but will be talked to by Allah on the Day of Resurrection, without there being an interpreter between him and Him (Allah).
He will look and see nothing ahead of him, and then he will look (again for the second time) in front of him, and the (Hell) Fire will confront him. So, whoever among you can save himself from the Fire, should do so even with one half of a date (to give in charity)."
Hadith - 129
Narrated `Adi bin Hatim: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Protect yourself from the Fire." He then turned his face aside (as if he were looking at it) and said again, "Protect yourself from the Fire," and then turned his face aside (as if he were looking at it), and he said so for the third time till we thought he was looking at it.
He then said, "Protect yourselves from the Fire, even if with one half of a date, and he who hasn't got even this, (should do so) by (saying) a good, pleasant word."
Hadith - 130
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The people were displayed in front of me and I saw one prophet passing by with a large group of his followers, and another prophet passing by with only a small group of people, and another prophet passing by with only ten (persons), and another prophet passing by with only five (persons), and another prophet passed by alone.
And then I looked and saw a large multitude of people, so I asked Gabriel, 'Are these people my followers?' He said, 'No, but look towards the horizon.'
I looked and saw a very large multitude of people. Gabriel said, 'Those are your followers, and those are seventy thousand (persons) in front of them who will neither have any reckoning of their accounts nor will receive any punishment.'
I asked, 'Why?' He said, 'For they used not to treat themselves with branding (cauterization) nor with Ruqya (get oneself treated by the recitation of some Verses of the Qur'an) and not to see evil omen in things, and they used to put their trust (only) in their Lord.'
On hearing that, 'Ukasha bin Mihsan got up and said (to the Prophet), "Invoke Allah to make me one of them." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O Allah, make him one of them."
Then another man got up and said (to the Prophet), "Invoke Allah to make me one of them." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "'Ukasha has preceded you."
Hadith - 131
Narrated Abu Huraira: I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "From my followers there will enter Paradise a crowd, seventy thousand in number, whose faces will glitter as the moon does when it is full."
On hearing that, 'Ukasha bin Mihsan Al-Asdi got up, lifting his covering sheet, and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Invoke Allah that He may make me one of them." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O Allah, make him one of them."
Another man from the Ansar got up and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Invoke Allah to make me one of them." The Prophet (ﷺ) said (to him), "'Ukasha has preceded you."
Hadith - 132
Narrated Sahl bin Sa`d: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Seventy-thousand or seven-hundred thousand of my followers (the narrator is in doubt as to the correct number) will enter Paradise holding each other till the first and the last of them enter Paradise at the same time, and their faces will have a glitter like that of the moon at night when it is full."
Hadith - 133
Narrated Ibn `Umar: The Prophet; said, "The people of Paradise will enter Paradise, and the people of the (Hell) Fire will enter the (Hell) Fire. Then a call-maker will get up (and make an announcement) among them, 'O the people of the (Hell) Fire! No death anymore! And O people of Paradise! No death (anymore) but Eternity."
Hadith - 134
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "It will be said to the people of Paradise, 'O people of Paradise! Eternity (for you) and no death,' and to the people of the Fire, 'O people of the Fire, eternity (for you) and no death.'"
Hadith - 135
Narrated `Imran: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I looked into paradise and saw that the majority of its people were the poor, and I looked into the Fire and found that the majority of its people were women."
Hadith - 136
Narrated Usama: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I stood at the gate of Paradise and saw that the majority of the people who had entered it were poor people, while the rich were forbidden (to enter along with the poor, because they were waiting the reckoning of their accounts), but the people of the Fire had been ordered to be driven to the Fire.
And I stood at the gate of the Fire and found that the majority of the people entering it were women."
Hadith - 137
Narrated Ibn `Umar: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "When the people of Paradise have entered Paradise and the people of the Fire have entered the Fire, death will be brought and will be placed between the Fire and Paradise, and then it will be slaughtered, and a call will be made (that), 'O people of Paradise, no more death! O people of the Fire, no more death !'
So the people of Paradise will have happiness added to their previous happiness, and the people of the Fire will have sorrow added to their previous sorrow."
Hadith - 138
Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Allah will say to the people of Paradise, 'O the people of Paradise!' They will say, 'Labbaik, O our Lord, and Sa`daik!'
Allah will say, 'Are you pleased?' They will say, 'Why should we not be pleased since You have given us what You have not given to anyone of Your creation?'
Allah will say, 'I will give you something better than that.' They will reply, 'O our Lord! And what is better than that?' Allah will say, 'I will bestow My pleasure and contentment upon you so that I will never be angry with you after forever.'"
Hadith - 139
Narrated Anas: Haritha was martyred on the day (of the battle) of Badr while he was young. His mother came to the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! You know the relation of Haritha to me (how fond of him I was); so, if he is in Paradise, I will remain patient and wish for Allah's reward, but if he is not there, then you will see what I will do."
The Prophet (ﷺ) replied, "May Allah be merciful upon you! Have you gone mad? (Do you think) it is one Paradise? There are many Paradises and he is in the (most superior) Paradise of Al-Firdaus."
Hadith - 140
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The width between the two shoulders of a Kafir (disbeliever) will be equal to the distance covered by a fast rider in three days."
Hadith - 141
Narrated Sahl bin Sa'd: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "In Paradise there is a tree so big that in its shade a rider may travel for one hundred years without being able to cross it."
Hadith - 142
Narrated Abu Sa'id: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: There is a tree in Paradise (so huge) that a fast (or a trained) rider may travel for one hundred years without being able to cross it."
Hadith - 143
Narrated Sahl bin Sa`d: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Seventy thousand or seven hundred thousand of my followers will enter Paradise. (Abu Hazim, the sub-narrator, is not sure as to which of the two numbers is correct.)
They will be holding on to each other, the first will not enter until the last one does, their faces like the moon on a full moon night."
Hadith - 144
Narrated Sahl: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The people of Paradise will see the Ghuraf (special abodes) in Paradise as you see a star in the sky."
Hadith - 145
Abu Sa`id added: "As you see a glittering star remaining in the eastern horizon and the western horizon."
Hadith - 146
Narrated Anas bin Malik: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Allah will say to the person who will have the minimum punishment in the Fire on the Day of Resurrection, 'If you had things equal to whatever is on the earth, would you ransom yourself (from the punishment) with it?' He will reply, 'Yes.'
Allah will say, 'I asked you a much easier thing than this while you were in the backbone of Adam, that is, not to worship others besides Me, but you refused and insisted to worship others besides Me.'"
Hadith - 147
Narrated Hammad from `Amr from Jabir: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Some people will come out of the Fire through intercession looking like The Thaarir." I asked `Amr, "What is the Thaarir?" He said, "Ad-Dagh`abis," and at that time he was toothless.
Hammad added: I said to `Amr bin Dinar, "O Abu Muhammad! Did you hear Jabir bin `Abdullah saying, 'I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying: 'Some people will come out of the Fire through intercession?'" He said, "Yes."
Hadith - 148
Narrated Anas bin Malik: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'Some people will come out of the Fire after they have received a touch of the Fire, changing their color, and they will enter Paradise, and the people of Paradise will name them "Al-Jahannamiyin" - the (Hell) Fire people.'
Hadith - 149
Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "When the people of Paradise have entered Paradise, and the people of the Fire have entered the Fire, Allah will say, 'Take out (of the Fire) whoever has got faith equal to a mustard seed in his heart.'
They will come out, and by that time they would have burnt and became like coal, and then they will be thrown into the river of Al-Hayat (life) and they will spring up just as a seed grows on the bank of a rainwater stream."
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Don't you see that the germinating seed comes out yellow and twisted?"
Hadith - 150
Narrated An-Nu`man: I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "The person who will have the least punishment from amongst the Hell Fire people on the Day of Resurrection, will be a man under whose arch of the feet a smoldering ember will be placed so that his brain will boil because of it."
Hadith - 151
Narrated An-Nu`man bin Bashir: I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "The least punished person of the (Hell) Fire people on the Day of Resurrection will be a man under whose arch of the feet two smoldering embers will be placed, because of which his brain will boil just like Al-Mirjal (copper vessel) or a Qum-qum (narrow-necked vessel) is boiling with water."
Hadith - 152
Narrated `Adi bin Hatim: The Prophet (ﷺ) mentioned the Fire and turned his face aside and asked for Allah's protection from it, and then again he mentioned the Fire and turned his face aside and asked for Allah's protection from it and said, "Protect yourselves from the Hell-Fire, even if with one half of a date, and he who cannot afford that, then (let him do so) by (saying) a good, pleasant word."
Hadith - 153
Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri: I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) when his uncle, Abu Talib had been mentioned in his presence, saying, "May be my intercession will help him (Abu Talib) on the Day of Resurrection so that he may be put in a shallow place in the Fire, with fire reaching his ankles and causing his brain to boil."
Hadith - 154
Narrated Anas: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Allah will gather all the people on the Day of Resurrection and they will say, 'Let us request someone to intercede for us with our Lord so that He may relieve us from this place of ours.'
Then they will go to Adam and say, 'You are the one whom Allah created with His Own Hands, and breathed in you of His soul, and ordered the angels to prostrate to you; so please intercede for us with our Lord.'
Adam will reply, 'I am not fit for this undertaking,' and will remember his sin, and will say, 'Go to Noah, the first Apostle sent by Allah.'
They will go to him and he will say, 'I am not fit for this undertaking', and will remember his sin and say, 'Go to Abraham whom Allah took as a Khalil.'
They will go to him (and request similarly). He will reply, 'I am not fit for this undertaking,' and will remember his sin and say, 'Go to Moses to whom Allah spoke directly.'
They will go to Moses and he will say, 'I am not fit for this undertaking,' and will remember his sin and say, 'Go to Jesus.'
They will go to him, and he will say, 'I am not fit for this undertaking, go to Muhammad as Allah has forgiven his past and future sins.'
They will come to me and I will ask my Lord's permission, and when I see Him, I will fall down in prostration to Him, and He will leave me in that state as long as (He) Allah wills, and then I will be addressed, 'Raise up your head (O Muhammad)! Ask, and your request will be granted; and say, and your saying will be listened to; intercede, and your intercession will be accepted.'
Then I will raise my head, and I will glorify and praise my Lord with a saying (i.e. invocation) He will teach me, and then I will intercede, Allah will fix a limit for me (i.e., certain type of people for whom I may intercede), and I will take them out of the (Hell) Fire and let them enter Paradise.
Then I will come back (to Allah) and fall in prostration, and will do the same for the third and fourth times till no-one remains in the (Hell) Fire except those whom the Qur'an has imprisoned therein."
(The sub-narrator, Qatada used to say at that point, "...those upon whom eternity (in Hell) has been imposed.")
Hadith - 155
Narrated `Imran bin Husain: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Some people will be taken out of the Fire through the intercession of Muhammad. They will enter Paradise and will be called Al-Jahannamiyin (the Hell Fire people)."
Hadith - 156
Narrated Anas: Um (the mother of) Haritha came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) after Haritha had been martyred on the Day (of the battle) of Badr by an arrow thrown by an unknown person.
She said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! You know the position of Haritha in my heart (i.e. how dear to me he was), so if he is in Paradise, I will not weep for him, or otherwise, you will see what I will do."
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Are you mad? Is there only one Paradise? There are many Paradises, and he is in the highest Paradise of Firdaus."
The Prophet (ﷺ) added, "A forenoon journey or an afternoon journey in Allah's Cause is better than the whole world and whatever is in it; and a place equal to an arrow bow of anyone of you, or a place equal to a foot in Paradise is better than the whole world and whatever is in it.
And if one of the women of Paradise looked at the earth, she would fill the whole space between them (the earth and the heaven) with light, and would fill whatever is in between them with perfume, and the veil of her face is better than the whole world and whatever is in it."
Hadith - 157
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "None will enter Paradise but will be shown the place he would have occupied in the (Hell) Fire if he had rejected faith, so that he may be more thankful; and none will enter the (Hell) Fire but will be shown the place he would have occupied in Paradise if he had faith, so that may be a cause of sorrow for him."
Hadith - 158
Narrated Abu Huraira: I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Who will be the luckiest person who will gain your intercession on the Day of Resurrection?"
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O Abu Huraira! I have thought that none will ask me about this Hadith before you, as I know your longing for the (learning of) Hadiths. The luckiest person who will have my intercession on the Day of Resurrection will be the one who said, 'None has the right to be worshipped but Allah,' sincerely from the bottom of his heart."
Hadith - 159
Narrated `Abdullah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I know the person who will be the last to come out of the (Hell) Fire, and the last to enter Paradise.
He will be a man who will come out of the (Hell) Fire crawling, and Allah will say to him, 'Go and enter Paradise.' He will go to it, but he will imagine that it had been filled, and then he will return and say, 'O Lord, I have found it full.'
Allah will say, 'Go and enter Paradise, and you will have what equals the world and ten times as much (or, you will have as much as ten times the like of the world).' On that, the man will say, 'Do you mock at me (or laugh at me) though You are the King?'"
I saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (while saying that) smiling that his premolar teeth became visible. It is said that will be the lowest in degree amongst the people of Paradise.
Hadith - 160
Narrated `Abbas: That he said to the Prophet (ﷺ), "Did you benefit Abu Talib with anything?"
Hadith - 161
Narrated Abu Huraira: Some people said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Shall we see our Lord on the Day of Resurrection?" He said, "Do you crowd and squeeze each other on looking at the sun when it is not hidden by clouds?" They replied, "No, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)."
He said, "Do you crowd and squeeze each other on looking at the moon when it is full and not hidden by clouds?" They replied, "No, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)!" He said, "So you will see Him (your Lord) on the Day of Resurrection.
Similarly Allah will gather all the people and say, 'Whoever used to worship anything should follow that thing.' So, he who used to worship the sun will follow it, and he who used to worship the moon will follow it, and he who used to worship false deities will follow them; and then only this nation (i.e., Muslims) will remain, including their hypocrites.
Allah will come to them in a shape other than they know and will say, 'I am your Lord.' They will say, 'We seek refuge with Allah from you. This is our place; (we will not follow you) till our Lord comes to us, and when our Lord comes to us, we will recognize Him.'
Then Allah will come to them in a shape they know and will say, 'I am your Lord.' They will say, '(No doubt) You are our Lord,' and they will follow Him. Then a bridge will be laid over the (Hell) Fire."
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) added, 'I will be the first to cross it. And the invocation of the Apostles on that Day will be: "Allahumma Sallim, Sallim (O Allah, save us, save us!)", and over that bridge there will be hooks similar to the thorns of As-Sa'dan (a thorny tree).
Didn't you see the thorns of As-Sa'dan?' The companions said, 'Yes, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ).'
He added, "So the hooks over that bridge will be like the thorns of As-Sa'dan except that their greatness in size is only known to Allah. These hooks will snatch the people according to their deeds.
Some people will be ruined because of their evil deeds, and some will be cut into pieces and fall down in Hell, but will be saved afterwards, when Allah has finished the judgments among His slaves, and intends to take out of the Fire whoever He wishes to take out from among those who used to testify that none had the right to be worshipped but Allah.
He will order the angels to take them out and the angels will know them by the mark of the traces of prostration (on their foreheads) for Allah banned the fire to consume the traces of prostration on the body of Adam's son.
So they will take them out, and by then they would have burnt (as coal), and then water, called Ma'-ul-Hayat (water of life) will be poured on them, and they will spring out like a seed springs out on the bank of a rainwater stream, and there will remain one man who will be facing the (Hell) Fire and will say, 'O Lord! It's (Hell's) vapor has Poisoned and smoked me and its flame has burnt me; please turn my face away from the Fire.'
He will keep on invoking Allah till Allah says, 'Perhaps, if I give you what you want, you will ask for another thing?' The man will say, 'No, by Your Power, I will not ask You for anything else.' Then Allah will turn his face away from the Fire.
The man will say after that, 'O Lord, bring me near the gate of Paradise.' Allah will say (to him), 'Didn't you promise not to ask for anything else? Woe to you, O son of Adam! How treacherous you are!'
The man will keep on invoking Allah till Allah will say, 'But if I give you that, you may ask Me for something else.' The man will say, 'No, by Your Power. I will not ask for anything else.' He will give Allah his covenant and promise not to ask for anything else after that.
So Allah will bring him near to the gate of Paradise, and when he sees what is in it, he will remain silent as long as Allah wills, and then he will say, 'O Lord! Let me enter Paradise.'
Allah will say, 'Didn't you promise that you would not ask Me for anything other than that? Woe to you, O son of Adam! How treacherous you are!'
On that, the man will say, 'O Lord! Do not make me the most wretched of Your creation,' and will keep on invoking Allah till Allah will smile, and when Allah will smile because of him, then He will allow him to enter Paradise, and when he will enter Paradise, he will be addressed, 'Wish from so-and-so.'
He will wish till all his wishes will be fulfilled, then Allah will say, "All this (i.e. what you have wished for) and as much again therewith are for you.'"
Abu Huraira added: That man will be the last of the people of Paradise to enter (Paradise).
Hadith - 162
Narrated 'Ata (while Abu Huraira was narrating (see previous hadith)): Abu Sa`id was sitting in the company of Abu Huraira and he did not deny anything of his narration till he reached his saying: "All this and as much again therewith are for you."
Then Abu Sa`id said, "I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, 'This is for you and ten times as much.'" Abu Huraira said, "In my memory it is, 'as much again therewith'."
Hadith - 163
Narrated `Abdullah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I am your predecessor at the Lake-Fount."
Hadith - 164
Abdullah added: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I am your predecessor at the Lake-Fount, and some of you will be brought in front of me till I will see them, and then they will be taken away from me and I will say, 'O Lord, my companions!' It will be said, 'You do not know what they did after you had left.'"
Hadith - 165
Narrated Ibn `Umar: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "There will be a tank (Lake-Fount) in front of you as large as the distance between Jarba and Adhruh (two towns in Sham)."
Hadith - 166
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: The word 'Al-Kauthar' means the abundant good which Allah gave to him (the Prophet Muhammad (ﷺ)).
Abu Bishr said: I said to Sa`id, "Some people claim that it (Al-Kauthar) is a river in Paradise." Sa`id replied, "The river which is in Paradise is one item of that good which Allah has bestowed upon him (Muhammad)."
Hadith - 167
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Amr: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "My Lake-Fount is (so large that it takes) a month's journey to cross it. Its water is whiter than milk, and its smell is nicer than musk (a kind of Perfume), and its drinking cups are (as numerous) as the (number of) stars of the sky; and whoever drinks from it, will never be thirsty."
Hadith - 168
Narrated Anas bin Malik: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The width of my Lake-Fount is equal to the distance between Aila (a town in Sham) and Sana' (the capital of Yemen) and it has as many (numerous) jugs as the number of stars of the sky."
Hadith - 169
Narrated Anas bin Malik: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: "While I was walking in Paradise (on the night of Mi'raj), I saw a river, on the two banks of which there were tents made of hollow pearls. I asked, 'What is this, O Gabriel?'
He said, 'That is the Kauthar which Your Lord has given to you.' Behold! Its scent or its mud was sharp smelling musk!" (The sub-narrator, Hudba is in doubt as to the correct expression).
Hadith - 170
Narrated Anas: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Some of my companions will come to me at my Lake Fount, and after I recognize them, they will then be taken away from me, whereupon I will say, 'My companions!' Then it will be said, 'You do not know what they innovated (new things) in the religion after you.'"
Hadith - 171
Narrated Abu Hazim from Sahl bin Sa`d: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I am your predecessor (forerunner) at the Lake-Fount, and whoever will pass by there, he will drink from it and whoever will drink from it, he will never be thirsty.
There will come to me some people whom I will recognize, and they will recognize me, but a barrier will be placed between me and them."
Hadith - 172
Abu Hazim added: An-Nu`man bin Abi `Aiyash, on hearing me, said, "Did you hear this from Sahl?" I said, "Yes."
He said, "I bear witness that I heard Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri saying the same, adding that the Prophet (ﷺ) said: 'I will say: "They are of me (i.e. my followers)." It will be said, "You do not know what they innovated (new things) in the religion after you left."
I will say, "Far removed, far removed (from mercy), those who changed (their religion) after me."'
Hadith - 173
Abu Huraira narrated that the Prophet (ﷺ) said: "On the Day of Resurrection a group of companions will come to me, but will be driven away from the Lake-Fount, and I will say, 'O Lord (those are) my companions!'
It will be said, 'You have no knowledge as to what they innovated after you left; they turned apostate as renegades (reverted from Islam).'"
Hadith - 174
Narrated Ibn Al-Musaiyab: The companions of the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Some men from my companions will come to my Lake-Fount and they will be driven away from it, and I will say, 'O Lord, my companions!'
It will be said, 'You have no knowledge of what they innovated after you left: they turned apostate as renegades (reverted from Islam).'"
Hadith - 175
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "While I was sleeping, a group (of my followers were brought close to me), and when I recognized them, a man (an angel) came out from amongst (us) me and them, he said (to them), 'Come along.'
I asked, 'Where?' He said, 'To the (Hell) Fire, by Allah.' I asked, 'What is wrong with them?' He said, 'They turned apostate as renegades after you left.'
Then behold! (Another) group (of my followers) were brought close to me, and when I recognized them, a man (an angel) came out from (me and them) he said (to them), 'Come along.'
I asked, 'Where?' He said, 'To the (Hell) Fire, by Allah.' I asked, 'What is wrong with them?' He said, 'They turned apostate as renegades after you left.' So I did not see anyone of them escaping except a few who were like camels without a shepherd."
Hadith - 176
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Between my house and my pulpit there is a garden from amongst the gardens of Paradise, and my pulpit is over my Lake-Fount."
Hadith - 177
Narrated Jundab: I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "I am your predecessor at the Lake-Fount (Al-Kauthar)."
Hadith - 178
Narrated `Uqba bin 'Amir: Once the Prophet (ﷺ) went out and offered the funeral prayers for the martyrs of Uhud, and then went to the pulpit and said, "I am a predecessor for you and I am a witness for you: and by Allah, I am looking at my Fount just now, and the keys of the treasures of the earth (or the keys of the earth) have been given to me.
And by Allah, I am not afraid that you will worship others besides Allah after me, but I am afraid that you will strive and struggle against each other over these treasures of the world."
Hadith - 179
Narrated Haritha bin Wahb: I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) mentioning the Lake-Fount (Al-Kauthar), saying, "(The width of the Lake-Fount) is equal to the distance between Medina and Sana' (capital of Yemen)."
Hadith - 180
Haritha said that he heard the Prophet saying that his Lake-Fount would be as large as the distance between Sana' and Medina. Al-Mustaurid said to Haritha, "Didn't you hear him talking about the vessels?" He said, "No." Al-Mustaurid said, "The vessels are seen in it as (numberless as) the stars."
Hadith - 181
Narrated Asma bint Abu Bakr: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I will be standing at the Lake-Fount so that I will see whom among you will come to me; and some people will be taken away from me, and I will say, 'O Lord, (they are) from me and from my followers.'
Then it will be said, 'Did you notice what they did after you? By Allah, they kept on turning on their heels (turned as renegades).'"
The sub-narrator, Ibn Abi Mulaika said, "O Allah, we seek refuge with You from turning on our heels, or being put to trial in our religion."