Hadith - 1
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "When an adulterer commits illegal sexual intercourse, then he is not a believer at the time he is doing it; and when somebody drinks an alcoholic drink, then he is not believer at the time of drinking, and when a thief steals, he is not a believer at the time when he is stealing; and when a robber robs and the people look at him, then he is not a believer at the time of doing it."
Abu Huraira in another narration, narrated the same from the Prophet (ﷺ) with the exclusion of robbery.
Hadith - 2
Narrated Anas bin Malik: The Prophet (ﷺ) beat a drunk with palm-leaf stalks and shoes. And Abu Bakr gave (such a sinner) forty lashes.
Hadith - 3
Narrated `Uqba bin Al-Harith: An-Nu`man or the son of An-Nu`man was brought to the Prophet (ﷺ) on a charge of drunkenness. So the Prophet ordered all the men present in the house to beat him. So all of them beat him, and I was also one of them who beat him with shoes.
Hadith - 4
Narrated `Uqba bin Al-Harith: An-Nu`man or the son of An-Nu`man was brought to the Prophet (ﷺ) in a state of intoxication.
The Prophet felt it hard (was angry) and ordered all those who were present in the house, to beat him. And they beat him, using palm-leaf stalks and shoes, and I was among those who beat him.
Hadith - 5
Narrated Anas: The Prophet (ﷺ) lashed a drunk with date-leaf stalks and shoes. And Abu Bakr gave a drunk forty lashes.
Hadith - 6
Narrated Abu Salama: Abu Huraira said, 'A man who drank wine was brought to the Prophet. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Beat him!"'
Abu Huraira added, "So some of us beat him with our hands, and some with their shoes, and some with their garments (by twisting it) like a lash, and then when we finished, someone said to him, 'May Allah disgrace you!'
On that, the Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'Do not say so, for you are helping Satan to overpower him.'"
Hadith - 7
Narrated `Ali bin Abi Talib: I would not feel sorry for one who dies because of receiving a legal punishment, except the drunk, for if he should die (when being punished), I would give blood money to his family, because no fixed punishment has been ordered by Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) for the drunk.
Hadith - 8
Narrated As-Sa'ib bin Yazid: We used to strike the drunks with our hands, shoes, clothes (by twisting it into the shape of lashes) during the lifetime of the Prophet, Abu Bakr and the early part of `Umar's caliphate.
But during the last period of `Umar's caliphate, he used to give the drunk forty lashes; and when drunks became mischievous and disobedient, he used to scourge them eighty lashes.
Hadith - 9
Narrated `Umar bin Al-Khattab: During the lifetime of the Prophet (ﷺ) there was a man called `Abdullah whose nickname was Donkey, and he used to make Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) laugh. The Prophet (ﷺ) lashed him because of drinking (alcohol).
And one day he was brought to the Prophet (ﷺ) on the same charge and was lashed. On that, a man among the people said, "O Allah, curse him! How frequently he has been brought (to the Prophet (ﷺ) on such a charge)"
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Do not curse him, for by Allah, I know for he loves Allah and His Apostle."
Hadith - 10
Narrated Abu Huraira: A drunk was brought to the Prophet (ﷺ) and he ordered him to be beaten (lashed). Some of us beat him with our hands, and some with their shoes, and some with their garments (twisted in the form of a lash).
When that drunk had left, a man said, "What is wrong with him? May Allah disgrace him!" Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Do not help Satan against your (Muslim) brother."
Hadith - 11
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "When (a person) an adulterer commits illegal sexual intercourse then he is not a believer at the time he is doing it; and when somebody steals, then he is not a believer at the time he is stealing."
Hadith - 12
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Allah curses a man who steals an egg and gets his hand cut off, or steals a rope and gets his hands cut off."
Al-A`mash said, "People used to interpret the Baida as an iron helmet, and they used to think that the rope may cost a few dirhams."
Hadith - 13
Narrated 'Ubada bin As-Samit: We were with the Prophet (ﷺ) in a gathering and he said, "Swear allegiance to me that you will not worship anything besides Allah, will not steal, and will not commit illegal sexual intercourse." And then (the Prophet) recited the whole Verse (i.e. Surah 60: Ayah 12).
The Prophet (ﷺ) added, "And whoever among you fulfills his pledge, his reward is with Allah; and whoever commits something of such sins and receives the legal punishment for it, that will be considered as the expiation for that sin, and whoever commits something of such sins and Allah screens him, it is up to Allah whether to excuse or punish him."
Hadith - 14
Narrated `Abdullah: Allah's Apostle said in Hajjat-al-Wada`, "Which month (of the year) do you think is most sacred?" The people said, "This current month of ours (the month of Dhul-Hijja)."
He said, "Which town (country) do you think is the most sacred?" They said, "This city of ours (Mecca)." He said, "Which day do you think is the most sacred?" The people said, "This day of ours."
He then said, "Allah, the Blessed, the Supreme, has made your blood, your property and your honor as sacred as this day of yours, in this town of yours, in this month of yours (and such protection cannot be slighted) except rightfully."
He then said thrice, "Have I conveyed Allah's Message (to you)?" The people answered him each time saying, "Yes."
The Prophet (ﷺ) added, "May Allah be merciful to you (or, woe on you)! Do not revert to disbelief after me by cutting the necks of each other."
Hadith - 15
Narrated Aisha: Whenever the Prophet (ﷺ) was given an option between two things, he used to select the easier of the two as long as it was not sinful; but if it was sinful, he would remain far from it.
By Allah, he never took revenge for himself concerning any matter that was presented to him, but when Allah's Limits were transgressed, he would take revenge for Allah's Sake.
Hadith - 16
Narrated `Aisha: Usama approached the Prophet (ﷺ) on behalf of a woman (who had committed theft).
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The people before you were destroyed because they used to inflict the legal punishments on the poor and forgive the rich. By Him in Whose Hand my soul is! If Fatima (the daughter of the Prophet (ﷺ)) did that (i.e. stole), I would cut off her hand."
Hadith - 17
Narrated `Aisha: The Quraish people became very worried about the Makhzumiya lady who had committed theft. They said, "Nobody can speak (in favor of the lady) to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and nobody dares do that except Usama who is the favorite of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)."
When Usama spoke to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) about that matter, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Do you intercede (with me) to violate one of the legal punishment of Allah?"
Then he got up and addressed the people, saying, "O people! The nations before you went astray because if a noble person committed theft, they used to leave him, but if a weak person among them committed theft, they used to inflict the legal punishment on him.
By Allah, if Fatima, the daughter of Muhammad committed theft, Muhammad will cut off her hand."
Hadith - 18
Narrated `Aisha: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The hand should be cut off for stealing something that is worth a quarter of a Dinar or more."
Hadith - 19
Narrated `Aisha: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The hand of a thief should be cut off for stealing a quarter of a Dinar."
Hadith - 20
Narrated `Aisha: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The hand should be cut off for stealing a quarter of a Dinar."
Hadith - 21
Narrated `Aisha: "The hand of a thief was not cut off during the lifetime of the Prophet (ﷺ) except for stealing something equal to a shield in value." A similar hadith is narrated from `Aisha through another chain.
Hadith - 22
Narrated `Aisha: A thief's hand was not cut off for stealing something cheaper than a Hajafa or a Turs (two kinds of shields), each of which was worth a (respectable) price.
Hadith - 23
Narrated `Aisha: A thief's hand was not cut off for stealing something worth less than the price of a shield, whether a Turs or Hajafa (two kinds of shields), each of which was worth a (respectable) price.
Hadith - 24
Narrated Ibn `Umar: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) cut off the hand of a thief for stealing a shield that was worth three Dirhams.
Hadith - 25
Narrated Ibn `Umar: The Prophet (ﷺ) cut off the hand of a thief for stealing a shield that was worth three Dirhams.
Hadith - 26
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar: The Prophet (ﷺ) cut off the hand of a thief for stealing a shield that was worth three Dirhams.
Hadith - 27
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar: The Prophet (ﷺ) cut off the hand of a thief for stealing a shield that was worth three Dirhams.
Hadith - 28
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Apostle said, "Allah curses the thief who steals an egg (or a helmet) for which his hand is to be cut off, or steals a rope for which his hand is to be cut off."
Hadith - 29
Narrated `Aisha: The Prophet (ﷺ) cut off the hand of a lady, and that lady used to come to me, and I used to convey her message to the Prophet (ﷺ) and she repented, and her repentance was sincere.
Hadith - 30
Narrated Ubada bin As-Samit: I gave the pledge of allegiance to the Prophet (ﷺ) with a group of people, and he said, "I take your pledge that you will not worship anything besides Allah, will not steal, will not commit infanticide, will not slander others by forging false statements and spreading it, and will not disobey me in anything good.
And whoever among you fulfill all these (obligations of the pledge), his reward is with Allah. And whoever commits any of the above crimes and receives his legal punishment in this world, that will be his expiation and purification.
But if Allah screens his sin, it will be up to Allah, Who will either punish or forgive him according to His wish."
Abu `Abdullah said: "If a thief repents after his hand has been cut off, then his witness will be accepted. Similarly, if any person upon whom any legal punishment has been inflicted repents, his witness will be accepted."
Hadith - 31
Narrated Anas: Some people from the tribe of `Ukl came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and embraced Islam. The climate of Medina did not suit them, so the Prophet (ﷺ) ordered them to go to the (herd of milch) camels of charity and to drink their milk and urine (as a medicine).
They did so, and after they had recovered from their ailment (became healthy) they turned renegades (reverted from Islam) and killed the shepherd of the camels and took the camels away.
The Prophet (ﷺ) sent (some people) in their pursuit and so they were (caught and) brought, and the Prophets ordered that their hands and legs should be cut off and that their eyes should be branded with heated pieces of iron, and that their cut hands and legs should not be cauterized, till they die.
Hadith - 32
Narrated Anas: The Prophet (ﷺ) cut off the hands and feet of the men belonging to the tribe of `Uraina and did not cauterise (their bleeding limbs) till they died.
Hadith - 33
Narrated Anas: A group of people from `Ukl (tribe) came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and they were living with the people of As-Suffa, but they became ill as the climate of Medina did not suit them, so they said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Provide us with milk."
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I see no other way for you than to use the camels of Allah's Apostle." So they went and drank the milk and urine of the camels, (as medicine) and became healthy and fat.
Then they killed the shepherd and took the camels away. When a help-seeker came to Allah's Apostle, he sent some men in their pursuit, and they were captured and brought before mid day.
The Prophet ordered for some iron pieces to be made red hot, and their eyes were branded with them and their hands and feet were cut off and were not cauterized. Then they were put at a place called Al-Harra, and when they asked for water to drink they were not given till they died.
(Abu Qilaba said, "Those people committed theft and murder and fought against Allah and His Apostle").
Hadith - 34
Narrated Anas bin Malik: A group of people from `Ukl (or `Uraina) tribe - but I think he said that they were from `Ukl - came to Medina and (they became ill, so) the Prophet (ﷺ) ordered them to go to the herd of (Milch) she-camels and told them to go out and drink the camels' urine and milk (as a medicine).
So they went and drank it, and when they became healthy, they killed the shepherd and drove away the camels.
This news reached the Prophet (ﷺ) early in the morning, so he sent (some) men in their pursuit and they were captured and brought to the Prophet (ﷺ) before midday.
He ordered to cut off their hands and legs and their eyes to be branded with heated iron pieces and they were thrown at Al-Harra, and when they asked for water to drink, they were not given water.
Abu Qilaba said, "Those were the people who committed theft and murder and reverted to disbelief after being believers (Muslims), and fought against Allah and His Apostle."
Hadith - 35
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Seven (people) will be shaded by Allah by His Shade on the Day of Resurrection when there will be no shade except His Shade.
(They will be) a just ruler, a young man who has been brought up in the worship of Allah, a man who remembers Allah in seclusion and his eyes are then flooded with tears, a man whose heart is attached to mosques (offers his compulsory congregational prayers in the mosque), two men who love each other for Allah's Sake, a man who is called by a charming lady of noble birth to commit illegal sexual intercourse with her, and he says, 'I am afraid of Allah,' and (finally), a man who gives in charity so secretly that his left hand does not know what his right hand has given."
Hadith - 36
Narrated Sahl bin Sa`d: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Whoever guarantees me (the chastity of) what is between his legs (i.e. his private parts), and what is between his jaws (i.e., his tongue), I guarantee him Paradise."
Hadith - 37
Narrated Anas: I will narrate to you a narration which nobody will narrate to you after me. I heard that from the Prophet.
I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "The Hour will not be established" or said: "From among the portents of the Hour is that the religious knowledge will betaken away (by the death of religious Scholars) and general ignorance (of religion) will appear; and the drinking of alcoholic drinks will be very common, and (open) illegal sexual intercourse will prevail, and men will decrease in number while women will increase so-much-so that, for fifty women there will only be one man to look after them."
Hadith - 38
Narrated 'Ikrima from Ibn 'Abbas: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)s said, "When a slave (of Allah) commits illegal sexual intercourse, he is not a believer at the time of committing it; and if he steals, he is not a believer at the time of stealing; and if he drinks an alcoholic drink, when he is not a believer at the time of drinking it; and he is not a believer when he commits a murder,"
'Ikrima said: I asked Ibn Abbas, "How is faith taken away from him?" He said, "Like this," by clasping his hands and then separating them, and added, "But if he repents, faith returns to him like this," by clasping his hands again.
Hadith - 39
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The one who commits an illegal sexual intercourse is not a believer at the time of committing illegal sexual intercourse, and a thief is not a believer at the time of committing theft, and a drinker of alcoholic drink is not a believer at the time of drinking. Yet, (the gate of) repentance is open thereafter."
Hadith - 40
Narrated `Abdullah bin Mas`ud: I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Which is the biggest sin?" He said, "To set up rivals to Allah by worshipping others, though He alone has created you."
I asked, "What is next?" He said, "To kill your child lest it should share your food."
I asked, "What is next?" He said, "To commit illegal sexual intercourse with the wife of your neighbor."
Hadith - 41
Narrated Ash-Shu`bi: From `Ali when the latter stoned a lady to death on a Friday, `Ali said, "I have stoned her according to the tradition of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)."
Hadith - 42
Narrated Ash Shaibani: I asked `Abdullah bin Abi `Aufa, 'Did Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) carry out the Rajam penalty (i.e., stoning to death)?' He said, "Yes." I said, "Before the revelation of Surat-an-Nur or after it?" He replied, "I don't know."
Hadith - 43
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah Al-Ansari: A man from the tribe of Bani Aslam came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and informed him that he had committed illegal sexual intercourse and bore witness four times against himself. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) ordered him to be stoned to death as he was a married person.
Hadith - 44
Narrated Abu Huraira: A man came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) while he was in the mosque, and he called him, saying, "O Allah's Apostle! I have committed illegal sexual intercourse.'"
The Prophet (ﷺ) turned his face to the other side, but that man repeated his statement four times, and after he bore witness against himself four times, the Prophet (ﷺ) called him, saying, "Are you mad?" The man said, "No." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Are you married?" The man said, "Yes."
Then the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Take him away and stone him to death." Jabir bin `Abdullah said: "I was among the ones who participated in stoning him and we stoned him at the Musalla. When the stones troubled him, he fled, but we overtook him at Al-Harra and stoned him to death."
Hadith - 45
Narrated `Aisha: Sa`d bin Abi Waqqas and `Abd bin Zam`a quarrelled with each other (regarding a child). The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The boy is for you, O `Abd bin Zam`a, for the boy is for (the owner) of the bed. O Sauda! Screen yourself from the boy."
The sub-narrator, Al-Laith added (that the Prophet (ﷺ) also said), "And the stone is for the person who commits an illegal sexual intercourse."
Hadith - 46
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The boy is for (the owner of) the bed and the stone is for the person who commits illegal sexual intercourse."
Hadith - 47
Narrated Ibn `Umar: A Jew and a Jewess were brought to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) on a charge of committing an illegal sexual intercourse. The Prophet (ﷺ) asked them, "What is the legal punishment (for this sin) in your Book (Torah)?"
They replied, "Our priests have innovated the punishment of blackening the faces with charcoal and Tajbiya." `Abdullah bin Salam said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), tell them to bring the Torah."
The Torah was brought, and then one of the Jews put his hand over the Divine Verse of the Rajam (stoning to death) and started reading what preceded and what followed it.
On that, Ibn Salam said to the Jew, "Lift up your hand." Behold! The Divine Verse of the Rajam was under his hand. So Allah's Apostle ordered that the two (sinners) be stoned to death, and so they were stoned.
Ibn `Umar added: So both of them were stoned at the Balat, and I saw the Jew sheltering the Jewess.
Hadith - 48
Narrated Jabir: A man from the tribe of Aslam came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and confessed that he had committed an illegal sexual intercourse. The Prophet (ﷺ) turned his face away from him till the man bore witness against himself four times.
The Prophet (ﷺ) said to him, "Are you mad?" He said "No." He said, "Are you married?" He said, "Yes."
Then the Prophet (ﷺ) ordered that he be stoned to death, and he was stoned to death at the Musalla. When the stones troubled him, he fled, but he was caught and was stoned till he died. The Prophet (ﷺ) spoke well of him and offered his funeral prayer.