Hadith - 1
Narrated Abu Dharr: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "While I was at Mecca, the roof of my house was opened and Gabriel descended, opened my chest, and washed it with Zamzam water. Then he brought a golden tray full of wisdom and faith, and having poured its contents into my chest, he closed it.
Then he took my hand and ascended with me to the nearest heaven. When I reached the nearest heaven, Gabriel said to the gatekeeper of the heaven, 'Open (the gate).' The gatekeeper asked, 'Who is it?' Gabriel answered: 'Gabriel.'
He asked, 'Is there anyone with you?' Gabriel replied, 'Yes, Muhammad is with me.' He asked, 'Has he been called?' Gabriel said, 'Yes.' So the gate was opened and we went over the nearest heaven, and there we saw a man sitting with some people on his right and some on his left.
When he looked towards his right, he laughed and when he looked toward his left he wept. Then he said, 'Welcome! O pious Prophet and pious son.' I asked Gabriel, 'Who is he?'
He replied, 'He is Adam, and the people on his right and left are the souls of his offspring. Those on his right are the people of Paradise and those on his left are the people of Hell, and when he looks towards his right he laughs and when he looks towards his left he weeps.'
Then he ascended with me till he reached the second heaven, and he (Gabriel) said to its gatekeeper, 'Open (the gate).' The gatekeeper said to him the same as the gatekeeper of the first heaven had said and he opened the gate.
Anas said: "Abu Dharr added that the Prophet (ﷺ) met Adam, Idris, Moses, Jesus and Abraham. Abu Dharr did not mention on which heaven they were, but he mentioned that he (the Prophet (ﷺ)) met Adam on the nearest heaven and Abraham on the sixth heaven.
Anas said, "When Gabriel, along with the Prophet (ﷺ), passed by Idris, the latter said, 'Welcome! O pious Prophet and pious brother.' The Prophet (ﷺ) asked, 'Who is he?' Gabriel replied, 'He is Idris."
The Prophet (ﷺ) added, "I passed by Moses and he said, 'Welcome! O pious Prophet and pious brother.' I asked Gabriel, 'Who is he?' Gabriel replied, 'He is Moses.'
Then I passed by Jesus and he said, 'Welcome! O pious brother and pious Prophet.' I asked, 'Who is he?' Gabriel replied, 'He is Jesus.'
Then I passed by Abraham and he said, 'Welcome! O pious Prophet and pious son.' I asked Gabriel, 'Who is he?' Gabriel replied, 'He is Abraham.'
The Prophet (ﷺ) added, "Then Gabriel ascended with me to a place where I heard the creaking of the pens."
Ibn Hazm and Anas bin Malik said: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Then Allah enjoined fifty prayers on my followers. When I returned with this order of Allah, I passed by Moses who asked me, 'What has Allah enjoined on your followers?' I replied, 'He has enjoined fifty prayers on them.'
Moses said, 'Go back to your Lord (and appeal for reduction), for your followers will not be able to bear it.' (So I went back to Allah and requested for reduction) and He reduced it to half.
When I passed by Moses again and informed him about it, he said, 'Go back to your Lord as your followers will not be able to bear it.' So I returned to Allah and requested for further reduction and half of it was reduced.
I again passed by Moses and he said to me: 'Return to your Lord, for your followers will not be able to bear it.' So I returned to Allah and He said, 'These are five prayers and they are all (equal to) fifty (in reward), for My Word does not change.'
I returned to Moses and he told me to go back once again. I replied, 'Now I feel shy of asking my Lord again.'
Then Gabriel took me till we reached Sidrat-il-Muntaha (Lote tree of the utmost boundary), which was shrouded in colors indescribable. Then I was admitted into Paradise, where I found small (tents or) walls made of pearls, and its earth was of musk.
Hadith - 2
Narrated `Aisha (the mother of believers): Allah enjoined the prayer and when He enjoined it, it was two rak`at only (in every prayer), both when in residence or on journey. Then the prayers offered on journey remained the same, but (the rak`at of) the prayers for non-travelers were increased.
Hadith - 3
Narrated Um `Atiya: We were ordered to bring out our menstruating women and veiled women in the religious gatherings and invocation of Muslims on the two `Id festivals. These menstruating women were to keep away from their Musalla. A woman asked, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), what about one who does not have a veil?" He said, "Let her share the veil of her companion."
Hadith - 4
Narrated Muhammad bin Al-Munkadir: Once Jabir prayed with his Izar tied to his back, while his clothes were lying beside him on a wooden peg.
Somebody asked him, "Do you offer your prayer in a single Izar?" He replied, "I did so to show it to a fool like you. Had anyone of us two garments in the lifetime of the Prophet?"
Hadith - 5
Narrated Muhammad bin Al Munkadir: I saw Jabir bin `Abdullah praying in a single garment, and he said that he had seen the Prophet (ﷺ) praying in a single garment.
Hadith - 6
Narrated `Umar bin Abi Salama: The Prophet (ﷺ) prayed in one garment and crossed its ends.
Hadith - 7
Narrated `Umar bin Abi Salama: I saw the Prophet (ﷺ) offering prayers in a single garment in the house of Um-Salama, and he had crossed its ends around his shoulders.
Hadith - 8
Narrated `Umar bin Abi Salama: In the house of Um-Salama, I saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) offering prayers, wrapped in a single garment around his body with its ends crossed round his shoulders.
Hadith - 9
Narrated Abu Murra (the freed slave of Um Hani): Um Hani, the daughter of Abi Talib said, "I went to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) in the year of the conquest of Mecca, and found him taking a bath and his daughter Fatima was screening him.
I greeted him. He asked, 'Who is she?' I replied, 'I am Um Hani bint Abi Talib.' He said, 'Welcome! O Um Hani.'
When he finished his bath he stood up and prayed eight rak`at while wearing a single garment wrapped round his body, and when he finished I said, 'O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! My brother has told me that he will kill a person whom I gave shelter, and that person is so-and-so the son of Hubaira.'
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'We shelter the person whom you have sheltered.'"
Um Hani added, "And that was before noon (Duha)."
Hadith - 10
Narrated Abu Huraira: A person asked Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) about the offering of the prayer in a single garment. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) replied, "Has every one of you got two garments?"
Hadith - 11
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "None of you should offer prayer in a single garment that does not cover the shoulders."
Hadith - 12
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Whoever prays in a single garment must cross its ends (over the shoulders)."
Hadith - 13
Narrated Sa`id bin Al-Harith: I asked Jabir bin `Abdullah about praying in a single garment. He said, "I traveled with the Prophet (ﷺ) during some of his journeys, and I came to him at night for some purpose and I found him praying.
At that time, I was wearing a single garment with which I covered my shoulders and prayed by his side. When he finished the prayer, he asked, 'O Jabir! What has brought you here?' I told him what I wanted.
When I finished, he asked, 'O Jabir! What is this garment which I have seen and with which you covered your shoulders?' I replied, 'It is a (tight) garment.'
He said, 'If the garment is large enough, wrap it round the body (covering the shoulders), and if it is tight (too short) then use it as an Izar (tie it around your waist only).'"
Hadith - 14
Narrated Sahl: The men used to pray with the Prophet (ﷺ) with their Izars tied around their necks as boys used to do; therefore the Prophet (ﷺ) told the women not to raise their heads till the men sat down straight (while praying).
Hadith - 15
Narrated Mughira bin Shu`ba: Once I was traveling with the Prophet (ﷺ) and he said, "O Mughira! Take this container of water." I took it and Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) went far away till he disappeared.
He answered the call of nature and was wearing a Syrian cloak. He tried to take out his hands from its sleeve, but it was very tight, so he took out his hands from under it. I poured water and he performed ablution like that for prayers and passed his wet hands over his Khuff (socks made from thick fabric or leather), and then prayed.
Hadith - 16
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah: While Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was carrying stones along with the people of Mecca for the building of the Ka`ba wearing an Izar (waist-sheet cover), his uncle Al-`Abbas said to him, "O my nephew! (It would be better) if you take off your Izar, and put it over your shoulders underneath the stones."
So he took off his Izar and put it over his shoulders, but he fell unconscious and since then he had never been seen naked.
Hadith - 17
Narrated Abu Huraira: A man stood up and asked the Prophet (ﷺ) about praying in a single garment. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Has every one of you two garments?"
A man put a similar question to `Umar on which he replied, "When Allah makes you wealthier, then you should clothe yourself properly during prayers. Otherwise one can pray with an Izar and a Rida' (a sheet covering the upper part of the body), Izar and a shirt, Izar and a Qaba', trousers and a Rida, trousers and a shirt or trousers and a Qaba', Tubban and a Qaba' or Tubban and a shirt." (The narrator added, "I think that he also said a Tubban and a Rida").
Hadith - 18
Narrated Ibn `Umar: A person asked Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), "What should a Muhrim wear?"
He replied, "He should not wear shirts, trousers, a burnus (a hooded cloak), or clothes which are stained with saffron or Wars (a kind of perfume). Whoever does not find a sandal to wear can wear Khuffs (socks made from thick fabric or leather), but these should be cut short so as not to cover the ankles."
Hadith - 19
Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade Ishtimal-As-Samma' (wrapping one's body with a garment so that one cannot raise its end or take one's hand out of it). 
He also forbade Al-Ihtiba' (sitting on buttocks with knees close to the abdomen and feet apart, with the hands circling the knees) while wrapping oneself with a single garment, without having a part of it over the private parts.
Hadith - 20
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) forbade two kinds of sales, i.e. Al-Limais and An-Nibadh (the former is a kind of sale in which the deal is completed if the buyer touches a thing, without seeing or checking it properly. And the latter is a kind of a sale in which the deal is completed when the seller throws a thing towards the buyer giving him no opportunity to see, touch or check it.)
and (the Prophet (ﷺ) forbade) also Ishtimal-As-Samma' and Al-Ihtiba' in a single garment.
Hadith - 21
Narrated Abu Huraira: On the Day of Nahr (10th of Dhul-Hijja, in the year prior to the last Hajj of the Prophet (ﷺ) when Abu Bakr was the leader of the pilgrims in that Hajj), Abu Bakr sent me along with other announcers to Mina to make a public announcement: "No pagan is allowed to perform Hajj after this year, and no naked person is allowed to perform the Tawaf around the Ka`ba."
Then Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) sent `Ali to read out the Surat Bara'a (at-Tauba) to the people; so he made the announcement along with us on the day of Nahr in Mina: "No pagan is allowed to perform Hajj after this year, and no naked person is allowed to perform the Tawaf around the Ka`ba."
Hadith - 22
Narrated Muhammad bin Al-Munkadir: I went to Jabir bin `Abdullah and he was praying wrapped in a garment, and his Rida was lying beside him.
When he finished the prayers, I said "O `Abdullah! You pray (in a single garment) while your Rida' is lying beside you." He replied, "Yes, I did it intentionally so that the ignorant ones like you might see me. I saw the Prophet (ﷺ) praying like this."
Hadith - 23
Narrated `Abdul `Aziz: Anas said, 'When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) invaded Khaibar, we offered the Fajr prayer there (early in the morning) when it was still dark. The Prophet (ﷺ) rode, and Abu Talha rode too and I was riding behind Abu Talha.
The Prophet (ﷺ) passed through the lane of Khaibar quickly and my knee was touching the thigh of the Prophet (ﷺ). He uncovered his thigh and I saw the whiteness of the thigh of the Prophet.
When he entered the town, he said, "Allahu Akbar! Khaibar is ruined. Whenever we approach near a (hostile) nation (to fight), then evil will be the morning of those who have been warned." He repeated this thrice.
The people came out for their jobs and some of them said, "Muhammad (has come)." (Some of our companions added, "With his army.") We conquered Khaibar, took the captives, and the booty was collected.
Dihya came and said, 'O Allah's Prophet! Give me a slave girl from the captives.' The Prophet said, 'Go and take any slave girl.' He took Safiya bint Huyai.
A man came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said, 'O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! You gave Safiya bint Huyai to Dihya, and she is the chief mistress of the tribes of Quraidha and An-Nadir, and she befits none but you.'
So the Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'Bring him along with her.' So Dihya came with her, and when the Prophet (ﷺ) saw her, he said to Dihya, 'Take any slave girl other than her from the captives.'
Anas added: The Prophet (ﷺ) then manumitted her and married her." Thabit asked Anas, "O Abu Hamza! What did the Prophet (ﷺ) pay her (as Mahr)?" He said, "Her self was her Mahr, for he manumitted her and then married her."
Anas added, "While on the way, Um Sulaim dressed her for marriage (ceremony) and at night she sent her as a bride to the Prophet (ﷺ). So the Prophet was a bridegroom and he said, 'Whoever has anything (food) should bring it.'
He spread out a leather sheet (for the food) and some brought dates and others cooking butter. (I think he (Anas) mentioned As-Sawaq). So they prepared a dish of Hais (a kind of meal). And that was Walima (the marriage banquet) of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)."
Hadith - 24
Narrated `Aisha: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to offer the Fajr prayer, and some believing women covered with their veiling sheets used to attend the Fajr prayer with him and then they would return to their homes unrecognized.
Hadith - 25
Narrated `Aisha: The Prophet (ﷺ) prayed in a Khamisa (a square garment) having marks. During the prayer, he looked at its marks.
So when he finished the prayer he said, "Take this Khamisa of mine to Abu Jahm and get me his Inbijaniya (a woolen garment without marks), as it (the Khamisa) has diverted my attention from the prayer."
Narrated `Aisha: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'I was looking at its (Khamisa's) marks during the prayers, and I was afraid that it may put me in trial (by taking away my attention).'
Hadith - 26
Narrated Anas: `Aisha had a Qiram (a thin marked woolen curtain) with which she had screened one side of her home.
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Take away this Qiram of yours, as its pictures are still displayed in front of me during my prayer (i.e. they divert my attention from the prayer)."
Hadith - 27
Narrated `Uqba bin 'Amir: The Prophet (ﷺ) was given a silken Farruj as a present. He wore it while praying.
When he had finished his prayer, he took it off violently as if with a strong aversion to it, and said, "It is not the dress of Allah-fearing pious people."
Hadith - 28
Narrated Abu Juhaifa: I saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) in a red leather tent and I saw Bilal taking the remaining water with which the Prophet had performed ablution. I saw the people taking the utilized water impatiently, and whoever got some of it rubbed it on his body, and those who could not get any took the moisture from the others' hands.
Then I saw Bilal carrying a short spear (or stick) which he planted in the ground. The Prophet came out tucking up his red cloak, and led the people in prayer and offered two rak`at (facing the Ka`ba) taking a short spear (or stick) as a Sutra for his prayer. I saw the people and animals passing in front of him beyond the stick.
Hadith - 29
Narrated Abu Hazim: Sahl bin Sa`d was asked about the Prophet's pulpit, as to what thing it was made of. Sahl replied: "None remains alive amongst the people, who knows about it better than I.
It was made of tamarisk (wood) of the forest. So-and-so, the slave of so-and-so prepared it for Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). When it was constructed and placed (in the Mosque), Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) stood on it facing the Qibla and said "Allahu Akbar", and the people stood behind him (and led the people in prayer).
He recited and bowed, and the people bowed behind him. Then he raised his head and stepped back, got down and prostrated on the ground, and then he again ascended the pulpit, recited, bowed, raised his head and stepped back, got down and prostrated on the ground. So, this is what I know about the pulpit."
Ahmad bin Hanbal said, "As the Prophet (ﷺ) was at a higher level than the people, there is no harm according to the above-mentioned Hadith if the Imam is at a higher level than his followers during the prayers."
Hadith - 30
Narrated Anas bin Malik: Once Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) fell off a horse and his leg or shoulder got injured. He swore that he would not go to his wives for one month and he stayed in a Mashruba (attic room) having stairs made of date palm trunks.
So his companions came to visit him, and he led them in prayer sitting, whereas his companions were standing.
When he finished the prayer, he said, "Imam is meant to be followed, so when he says "Allahu Akbar", say "Allahu Akbar" and when he bows, bow and when he prostrates, prostrate; and if he prays standing, pray standing."
After the 29th day the Prophet (ﷺ) came down (from the attic room), and the people asked him, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! You swore that you will not go to your wives for one month." He said, "The month is 29 days."
Hadith - 31
Narrates `Abdullah bin Shaddad: Maimuna said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was praying while I was in my menses, sitting beside him and sometimes his clothes would touch me during his prostration."
Maimuna added, "He prayed on a Khumra (a small mat sufficient just for the face and the hands while prostrating during prayers)."
Hadith - 32
Narrated 'Is-haq: Anas bin Malik said, "My grandmother Mulaika invited Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) for a meal which she herself had prepared. He ate from it and said, 'Get up! I will lead you in the prayer.'"
Anas added, "I took my Hasir, washed it with water as it had become dark because of long use, and Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) stood on it. The orphan (Damira or Ruh) and I aligned behind him, and the old lady (Mulaika) stood behind us. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) led us in the prayer and offered two rak`at and then left."
Hadith - 33
Narrated Maimuna: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to pray on a Khumra.
Hadith - 34
Narrated Abu Salama: `Aisha, the wife of the Prophet (ﷺ), said, "I used to sleep in front of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and my legs were opposite his Qibla, and in prostration he pushed my legs and I withdrew them, and when he stood, I stretched them.'
`Aisha added, "In those days the houses were without lights."
Hadith - 35
Narrated `Aisha: Allah's Apostle prayed while I was lying like a dead body on his family bed between him and his Qibla.
Hadith - 36
Narrated `Urwa: The Prophet (ﷺ) prayed while `Aisha was lying between him and his Qibla on the bed on which they used to sleep.
Hadith - 37
Narrated Anas bin Malik: We used to pray with the Prophet (ﷺ), and some of us used to place the ends of their clothes at the place of prostration because of scorching heat.
Hadith - 38
Narrated Abu Maslama: Sa`id bin Yazid Al-Azdi: I asked Anas bin Malik whether the Prophet (ﷺ) had ever prayed with his shoes on. He replied, "Yes."
Hadith - 39
Narrated Ibrahim: Hammam bin Al-Harith said, "I saw Jarir bin `Abdullah urinating. Then he performed ablution and passed his (wet) hands over his Khuffs (socks made from thick fabric or leather), stood up and prayed.
He was asked about it. He replied that he had seen the Prophet (ﷺ) doing the same." They approved of this narration as Jarir was one of those who embraced Islam very late.
Hadith - 40
Narrated Al-Mughira bin Shu'ba: I helped the Prophet (ﷺ) in performing ablution, and he passed his wet hands over his Khuffs and prayed.
Hadith - 41
Narrated Hudhaifa that he saw a person bowing and prostrating imperfectly. When he finished his Salat, Hudhaifa told him that he had not offered Salat.
The subnarrator added, "I think that Hudhaifa also said: Were you to die, you would die on a "Sunna" (legal way) other than that of Muhammad (ﷺ)."
Hadith - 42
Narrated 'Abdullah bin Malik: Ibn Buhaina, "When the Prophet (ﷺ) prayed, he used to separate his arms from his body so widely that the whiteness of his armpits was visible."
Hadith - 43
Narrated Anas bin Malik: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Whoever prays like us and faces our Qibla and eats our slaughtered animals is a Muslim and is under Allah's and His Apostle's protection. So do not betray Allah by betraying those who are in His protection."
Hadith - 44
Narrated Anas bin Malik: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "I have been ordered to fight the people till they say: 'None has the right to be worshipped but Allah.' And if they say so, pray like our prayers, face our Qibla and slaughter as we slaughter, then their blood and property will be sacred to us, and we will not interfere with them except legally, and their reckoning will be with Allah."
Hadith - 45
Narrated Maimun bin Siyah that he asked Anas bin Malik, "O Abu Hamza! What makes the life and property of a person sacred?"
He replied, 'Whoever says, "None has the right to be worshipped but Allah", faces our Qibla during the prayers, prays like us and eats our slaughtered animal, then he is a Muslim, and has got the same rights and obligations as other Muslims have.'
Hadith - 46
Narrated Abu Aiyub Al-Ansari: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "While defecating, neither face nor turn your back to the Qibla, but face either east or west."
Abu Aiyub added, "When we arrived in Sham, we came across some lavatories facing the Qibla; therefore we turned ourselves while using them, and asked for Allah's forgiveness."
Hadith - 47
Narrated `Amr bin Dinar: I asked Ibn `Umar, "Can a person who has performed the Tawaf around the Ka`ba for `Umra, but has not performed the Sa`i Tawaf of Safa and Marwa, have a sexual relation with his wife?"
Ibn `Umar replied "When the Prophet (ﷺ) reached Mecca, he performed the Tawaf around the Ka`ba (circumambulated it seven times) and offered a two rak`at prayer (at the place) behind the station of Abraham, and then performed the Sa`i Tawaf of Safa and Marwa, and verily in Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) you have a good example."
Then we put the same question to Jabir bin `Abdullah and he too replied, "He should not go near his wife (for sexual relation) till he has finished the Tawaf of Safa and Marwa."
Hadith - 48
Narrated Mujahid: Someone came to Ibn `Umar and said, "Here is Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) entering the Ka`ba."
Ibn `Umar said, "I went there but the Prophet (ﷺ) had come out of the Ka`ba, and I found Bilal standing between its two doors. I asked Bilal, 'Did the Prophet (ﷺ) pray in the Ka`ba?'
Bilal replied, 'Yes, he prayed two rak`at between the two pillars which are to your left on entering the Ka`ba. Then Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) came out and offered a two rak`at prayer facing the Ka`ba.'"
Hadith - 49
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: When the Prophet (ﷺ) entered the Ka`ba, he invoked Allah in each and every side of it and did not pray till he came out of it, and offered a two rak`at prayer facing the Ka`ba and said, "This is the Qibla."
Hadith - 50
Narrated Bara' bin `Azib: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) prayed facing Baitul-Maqdis for sixteen or seventeen months, but he loved to face the Ka`ba (at Mecca) so Allah revealed: "Verily, We have seen the turning of your face to the heaven!" (Surah 2: Ayah 144)
So the Prophet (ﷺ) faced the Ka`ba, and the fools amongst the people (namely the Jews) said, "What has turned them from their Qibla (Baitul-Maqdis) which they formerly observed?" (Allah revealed): "Say: 'To Allah belongs the East and the West. He guides whom He wills to a straight path'." (Surah 2: Ayah 142)
A man prayed with the Prophet (facing the Ka`ba) and went out. He saw some of the Ansar praying the `Asr prayer with their faces towards Baitul-Maqdis. He said, "I bear witness that I prayed with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) facing the Ka`ba." So all the people turned their faces towards the Ka`ba.
Hadith - 51
Narrated Jabir: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to pray (optional, non-obligatory prayer) while riding on his mount (Rahila) wherever it turned, and whenever he wanted to pray the compulsory prayer, he dismounted and prayed facing the Qibla.
Hadith - 52
Narrated `Abdullah: The Prophet (ﷺ) prayed (and the sub-narrator Ibrahim said, "I do not know whether he prayed more or less than usual"), and when he had finished the prayers he was asked, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Has there been any change in the prayers?"
He said, "What is it?" The people said, "You have prayed so much and so much." So the Prophet (ﷺ) bent his legs, faced the Qibla and performed two prostrations (of Sahu) and finished his prayers with Taslim (by turning his face to right and left saying: "As-Salamu `Alaikum- Warahmat-ullah").
When he turned his face to us he said, "If there had been anything changed in the prayer, surely I would have informed you, but I am a human being like you and liable to forget like you.
So if I forget, remind me, and if anyone of you is doubtful about his prayer, he should follow what he thinks to be correct and complete his prayer accordingly, and finish it and do two prostrations (of Sahu)."
Hadith - 53
Narrated `Umar bin Al-Khattab: My Lord agreed with me in three things: 
1. I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), I wish we took the station of Abraham as our praying place (for some of our prayers). So came the Divine Inspiration: And take you (people) the station of Abraham as a place of prayer (for some of your prayers e.g. two rak`at of Tawaf of Ka`ba)". (Surah 2: Ayah 125)
2. And as regards the (verse of) the veiling of the women, I said, 'O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! I wish you ordered your wives to cover themselves from the men, because good and bad ones talk to them.' So the verse of the veiling of the women was revealed.
3. Once the wives of the Prophet (ﷺ) made a united front against the Prophet (ﷺ) and I said to them, 'It may be if he (the Prophet) divorced you (all), that his Lord (Allah) will give him instead of you wives better than you.' So this verse (the same as I had said) was revealed."
Hadith - 54
Narrated Anas: as above.
Hadith - 55
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar: While the people were offering the Fajr prayer at Quba' (near Medina), someone came to them and said: "It has been revealed to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) tonight, and he has been ordered to pray facing the Ka`ba. So turn your faces to the Ka`ba." Those people were facing Sham (Jerusalem), so they turned their faces towards Ka`ba (at Mecca).
Hadith - 56
Narrated `Abdullah: "Once the Prophet (ﷺ) offered five rak`at in Zuhr prayer. He was asked, "Is there an increase in the prayer?"
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "And what is it?" They said, "You have prayed five rak`at." So he bent his legs and performed two prostrations (of Sahu).
Hadith - 57
Narrated Anas bin Malik: The Prophet (ﷺ) saw some sputum in the direction of the Qibla (on the wall of the mosque) and he disliked that, and the sign of disgust was apparent from his face.
So he got up and scraped it off with his hand and said, "Whenever anyone of you stands for the prayer, he is speaking in private to his Lord or his Lord is between him and his Qibla.
So none of you should spit in the direction of the Qibla, but one can spit to the left or under his foot." The Prophet (ﷺ) then took the corner of his sheet and spat in it and folded it and said, "Or you can do this."
Hadith - 58
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saw sputum on the wall of the mosque in the direction of the Qibla and scraped it off.
He faced the people and said, "Whenever any one of you is praying, he should not spit in front of him, because in the prayer Allah is in front of him."
Hadith - 59
Narrated `Aisha (the mother of faithful believers): Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saw some nasal secretions, expectoration or sputum on the wall of the mosque in the direction of the Qibla and scraped it off.
Hadith - 60
Narrated Abu Huraira and Abu Sa`id: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saw some expectoration on the wall of the mosque; he took gravel and scraped it off and said, "If anyone of you wanted to spit he should neither spit in front of him nor on his right, but he could spit either on his left or under his left foot."
Hadith - 61
Narrated Abu Huraira and Abu Sa`id: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saw some expectoration on the wall of the mosque; he took gravel and scraped it off and said, "If anyone of you wanted to spit, he should neither spit in front of him nor on his right, but could spit either on his left or under his left foot."
Hadith - 62
Narrated Anas: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "None of you should spit in front or on his right, but he could spit either on his left or under his foot."
Hadith - 63
Narrated Anas bin Malik: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "A faithful believer while in prayer is speaking in private to his Lord, so he should neither spit in front of him nor to his right side, but he could spit either on his left or under his foot."
Hadith - 64
Narrated Abu Sa`id: The Prophet (ﷺ) saw sputum on (the wall of) the mosque in the direction of the Qibla and scraped it off with gravel. Then he forbade spitting in front or on the right, but allowed it on one's left or under one's left foot.
Hadith - 65
Narrated Anas bin Malik: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Spitting in the mosque is a sin, and its expiation is to bury it."
Hadith - 66
Narrated Abu Huraira: Prophet said, "If anyone of you stands for prayer, he should not spit in front of him, because in prayer he is speaking in private to Allah and he should not spit on his right as there is an angel, but he can spit either on his left or under his left foot and bury it (i.e. expectoration)."
Hadith - 67
Narrated Anas: The Prophet (ﷺ) saw expectoration (on the wall of the mosque) in the direction of the Qibla and scraped it off with his hand. It seemed that he disliked it and the sign of disgust was apparent from his face.
He said, "If anyone of you stands for the prayer, he is speaking in private to his Lord, (or) his Lord is between him and his Qibla, therefore he should not spit towards his Qibla, but he could spit either on his left or under his foot." Then he took the corner of his sheet and spat in it, folded it and said, "Or do this."