Hadith - 68
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Do you consider or see that my face is towards the Qibla? By Allah, neither your submissiveness nor your bowing is hidden from me, surely I see you from my back."
Hadith - 69
Narrated Anas bin Malik: The Prophet (ﷺ) led us in a prayer and then got up on the pulpit and said, "In your prayer and bowing, I certainly see you from my back as I see you (while looking at you)."
Hadith - 70
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) ordered for a horse race; the trained horses were to run from a place called Al-Hafya' to Thaniyat Al-Wada`, and the horses which were not trained were to run from Al-Thaniya to the Masjid (mosque of) Bani Zuraiq.
The sub narrator added: Ibn `Umar was one of those who took part in the race.
Hadith - 71
Narrated Anas: Some goods came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) from Bahrain. The Prophet (ﷺ) ordered the people to spread them in the mosque. It was the biggest amount of goods Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had ever received. He left for prayer and did not even look at it.
After finishing the prayer, he sat by those goods and gave from those to everybody he saw. Al-`Abbas came to him and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Give me (something) too, because I gave ransom for myself and `Aqil". Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) told him to take.
So he stuffed his garment with it and tried to carry it away, but he failed to do so. He said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Order someone to help me in lifting it." The Prophet (ﷺ) refused. He then said to the Prophet: "Will you please help me to lift it?" Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) refused.
Then Al-`Abbas threw some of it and tried to lift it (but failed). He again said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), order someone to help me to lift it." He refused. Al-`Abbas then said to the Prophet: "Will you please help me to lift it?" He again refused.
Then Al-`Abbas threw some of it, and lifted it on his shoulders and went away. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) kept on watching him till he disappeared from his sight and was astonished at his greediness. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) did not get up till the last coin was distributed.
Hadith - 72
Narrated Anas: I found the Prophet (ﷺ) in the mosque along with some people. He said to me, "Did Abu Talha send you?" I said, "Yes". He said, "For a meal?" I said, "Yes." Then he said to his companions, "Get up." They set out and I was ahead of them.
Hadith - 73
Narrated Sahl bin Sa`d: A man said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! If a man finds another man with his wife, (committing adultery) should the husband kill him?" Later on I saw them (the man and his wife) doing Li`an in the mosque (taking oaths, one accusing, and the other denying adultery).
Hadith - 74
Narrated `Itban bin Malik: The Prophet (ﷺ) came to my house and said, "Where do you like me to pray?" I pointed to a place. The Prophet then said, "Allahu Akbar", and we aligned behind him and he offered a two rak`at prayer.
Hadith - 75
Narrated `Itban bin Malik: who was one of the companions of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and one of the Ansar who took part in the battle of Badr: I came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) I have weak eyesight and I lead my people in prayers. When it rains the water flows in the valley between me and my people, so I cannot go to their mosque to lead them in prayer.
O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! I wish you would come to my house and pray in it, so that I could take that place as a Musalla." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Allah willing, I will do so."
Next day after the sun rose high, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and Abu Bakr came, and Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) asked for permission to enter. I gave him permission and he did not sit on entering the house but said to me, "Where do you like me to pray?" I pointed to a place in my house.
So Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) stood there and said, "Allahu Akbar", and we all got up and aligned behind him and offered a two rak`at prayer and ended it with Taslim.
We requested him to stay for a meal called "Khazira" which we had prepared for him.
Many members of our family gathered in the house and one of them said, "Where is Malik bin Al-Dukhaishin or Ibn Al-Dukhshun?" One of them replied, "He is a hypocrite and does not love Allah and His Apostle."
Hearing that, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Do not say so. Haven't you seen that he said, “None has the right to be worshipped but Allah” for Allah's sake only?"
He said, "Allah and His Apostle know better. We have seen him helping and advising hypocrites." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Allah has forbidden the (Hell) fire for those who say, “None has the right to be worshipped but Allah” for Allah's sake only."
Hadith - 76
Narrated `Aisha: The Prophet (ﷺ) used to start every thing from the right (for good things) whenever it was possible in all his affairs; for example: in washing, combing or wearing shoes.
Hadith - 77
Narrated `Aisha: Um Habiba and Um Salama mentioned about a church they had seen in Ethiopia in which there were pictures.
They told the Prophet (ﷺ) about it, on which he said, "If any religious man died amongst those people, they would build a place of worship at his grave and make these pictures in it. They will be the worst creatures in the sight of Allah on the Day of Resurrection."
Hadith - 78
Narrated Anas: When the Prophet (ﷺ) arrived in Medina, he dismounted at `Awali-il-Medina amongst a tribe called Banu `Amr bin `Auf. He stayed there for fourteen nights.
Then he sent for Bani An-Najjar and they came armed with their swords. As if I am looking (just now) as the Prophet (ﷺ) was sitting over his Rahila (Mount) with Abu Bakr riding behind him and all Banu An-Najjar around him, till he dismounted at the courtyard of Abu Aiyub's house.
The Prophet (ﷺ) loved to pray wherever the time for the prayer was due, even at sheep-folds.
Later on he ordered that a mosque should be built and sent for some people of Banu-An-Najjar and said, "O Banu An-Najjar! Suggest to me the price of this (walled) piece of land of yours." They replied, "No! By Allah! We do not demand its price except from Allah."
Anas added: There were graves of pagans in it and some of it was unleveled and there were some date-palm trees in it. The Prophet (ﷺ) ordered that the graves of the pagans be dug out, and the unleveled land be levelled and the date-palm trees be cut down . (So all that was done).
They aligned these cut date-palm trees towards the Qibla of the mosque (as a wall) and they also built two stone side-walls (of the mosque). His companions brought the stones while reciting some poetic verses.
The Prophet (ﷺ) was with them and he kept on saying, "There is no goodness except that of the Hereafter, O Allah! So please forgive the Ansar and the emigrants."
Hadith - 79
Narrated Abu Al-Taiyah: Anas said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) prayed in the sheep fold." Later on I heard him saying, "He prayed in the sheep folds before the construction of the mosque."
Hadith - 80
Narrated Nafi`: "I saw Ibn `Umar praying while taking his camel as a Sutra in front of him, and he said, 'I saw the Prophet doing the same.'"
Hadith - 81
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Abbas: The sun eclipsed and Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) offered the eclipse prayer and said, "I have been shown the Hellfire (now) and I never saw a worse and horrible sight than the sight I have seen today."
Hadith - 82
Narrated Ibn `Umar: The Prophet (ﷺ) had said, "Offer some of your prayers (Nawafil) at home, and do not take your houses as graves."
Hadith - 83
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Do not enter (the places) of these people where Allah's punishment had fallen unless you do so weeping.
If you do not weep, do not enter (the places of these people), because Allah's curse and punishment which fell upon them may fall upon you."
Hadith - 84
Narrated `Aisha: Um Salama told Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) about a church which she had seen in Ethiopia and which was called Mariya. She told him about the pictures which she had seen in it.
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If any righteous pious man dies amongst them, they would build a place of worship at his grave and make these pictures in it; they are the worst creatures in the sight of Allah."
Hadith - 85
Narrated `Aisha and `Abdullah bin `Abbas: When the last moment of the life of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) came, he started putting his Khamisa on his face, and when he felt hot and short of breath he took it off his face and said, "May Allah curse the Jews and Christians, for they built the places of worship at the graves of their Prophets."
The Prophet (ﷺ) was warning (Muslims) of what those had done.
Hadith - 86
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "May Allah's curse be on the Jews, for they built the places of worship at the graves of their Prophets."
Hadith - 87
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "I have been given five things which were not given to any amongst the Prophets before me. These are:
1. Allah made me victorious by awe (by His frightening my enemies) for a distance of one month's journey.
2. The earth has been made for me (and for my followers) a place for praying and a thing to perform Tayammum. Therefore my followers can pray wherever the time of a prayer is due. 
3. The booty has been made Halal (lawful) for me (and was not made so for anyone else). 
4. Every Prophet used to be sent to his nation exclusively, but I have been sent to all mankind.
5. I have been given the right of intercession (on the Day of Resurrection).
Hadith - 88
Narrated `Aisha: There was a black slave girl belonging to an 'Arab tribe and they manumitted her, but she remained with them.
The slave girl said, "Once one of their girls (of that tribe) came out wearing a red leather scarf decorated with precious stones. It fell from her or she placed it somewhere. A kite passed by that place, saw it lying there and mistaking it for a piece of meat, flew away with it.
Those people searched for it but they did not find it. So they accused me of stealing it and started searching me and even searched my private parts."
The slave girl further said, "By Allah! while I was standing (in that state) with those people, the same kite passed by them and dropped the red scarf and it fell amongst them. I told them, 'This is what you accused me of and I was innocent, and now this is it.'" 
`Aisha added: That slave girl came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and embraced Islam. She had a tent or a small room with a low roof in the mosque.
Whenever she called on me, she had a talk with me, and whenever she sat with me, she would recite the following: "The day of the scarf (band) was one of the wonders of our Lord, verily He rescued me from the disbelievers' town." `Aisha added: "Once I asked her, 'What is the matter with you? Whenever you sit with me, you always recite these poetic verses.' On that she told me the whole story."
Hadith - 89
Narrated Nafi`: `Abdullah bin `Umar said: I used to sleep in the mosque of the Prophet (ﷺ) while I was young and unmarried.
Hadith - 90
Narrated Sahl bin Sa`d: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) went to Fatima's house, but did not find `Ali there. So he asked, "Where is your cousin?" She replied, "There was something between us and he got angry with me and went out. He did not sleep (midday nap) in the house."
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) asked a person to look for him. That person came and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! He (Ali) is sleeping in the mosque."
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) went there and `Ali was lying. His upper body cover had fallen down to one side of his body and he was covered with dust. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) started cleaning the dust from him saying: "Get up! O Aba Turab. Get up! O Aba Turab (literally means: O father of dust)."
Hadith - 91
Narrated Abu Huraira: I saw seventy of As-Suffa men and none of them had a Rida' (a garment covering the upper part of the body). They had either Izars (only) or sheets which they tied round their necks.
Some of these sheets reached the middle of their legs and some reached their heels, and they used to gather them with their hands lest their private parts should become naked.
Hadith - 92
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah: I went to the Prophet (ﷺ) in the mosque (the sub-narrator Mis`ar thought that Jabir had said, "In the forenoon.")
He ordered me to pray two rak`at. He owed me some money and he repaid it to me and gave more than what was due to me.
Hadith - 93
Narrated Abu Qatada Al-Aslami: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If anyone of you enters a mosque, he should pray two rak`at before sitting."
Hadith - 94
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The angels keep on asking Allah's forgiveness for anyone of you, as long as he is at his Musalla (praying place) and he does not pass wind (Hadath). They say, 'O Allah! Forgive him, O Allah! Be Merciful to him.'"
Hadith - 95
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar: In the lifetime of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), the mosque was built of adobes, its roof of the leaves of date-palms and its pillars of the stems of date-palms.
Abu Bakr did not alter it. `Umar expanded it on the same pattern as it was in the lifetime of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) by using adobes, leaves of date-palms and changing the pillars into wooden ones.
`Uthman changed it by expanding it to a great extent, and built its walls with engraved stones and lime and made its pillars of engraved stones and its roof of teak wood.
Hadith - 96
Narrated `Ikrima: Ibn `Abbas said to me and to his son `Ali, "Go to Abu Sa`id and listen to what he narrates." So we went and found him in a garden looking after it. He picked up his Rida', wore it and sat down and started narrating till the topic of the construction of the mosque reached.
He said, "We were carrying one adobe at a time while `Ammar was carrying two. The Prophet (ﷺ) saw him and started removing the dust from his body and said, "May Allah be Merciful to `Ammar. He will be inviting them (i.e. his murderers, the rebellious group) to Paradise and they will invite him to Hell-fire." `Ammar said, "I seek refuge with Allah from affliction."
Hadith - 97
Narrated Sahl: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) sent someone to a woman telling her to "Order her slave, a carpenter, to prepare a wooden pulpit for him to sit on."
Hadith - 98
Narrated Jabir: A woman said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Shall I get something constructed for you to sit on, as I have a slave who is a carpenter?" He replied, "Yes, if you like." So she had that pulpit constructed.
Hadith - 99
Narrated 'Ubaidullah Al-Khaulani: I heard `Uthman bin `Affan saying, when people argued too much about his intention to reconstruct the mosque of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), "You have talked too much. I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, 'Whoever built a mosque, (Bukair thought that `Asim, another sub-narrator, added, "Intending Allah's Pleasure"), Allah would build for him a similar place in Paradise.'"
Hadith - 100
Narrated `Amr: I heard Jabir bin `Abdullah saying, "A man passed through the mosque carrying arrows. Allah's Apostle said to him, 'Hold them by their heads.'"
Hadith - 101
Narrated Abu Burda bin `Abdullah (on the authority of his father): The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Whoever passes through our mosques or markets with arrows should hold them by their heads, lest he should injure a Muslim."
Hadith - 102
Narrated Hassan bin Thabit Al-Ansari: I asked Abu Huraira, "By Allah! Tell me the truth whether you heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, 'O Hassan! Reply on behalf of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). O Allah! Help him with the Holy Spirit.'" Abu Huraira said, "Yes."
Hadith - 103
Narrated `Aisha: Once I saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) at the door of my house while some Ethiopians were playing in the mosque (displaying their skill with spears). Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was screening me with his Rida' so as to enable me to see their display.
(`Urwa said that `Aisha said, "I saw the Prophet (ﷺ) and the Ethiopians were playing with their spears.")
Hadith - 104
Narrated `Aisha: Barirah came to seek my help regarding her manumission (freedom). I told her, "If you like I would pay your price to your masters, but your Wala' (allegiance) would be for me."
Her masters said, "If you like, you can pay what remains (of the price of her manumission), (Sufyan the sub-narrator once said), or if you like you can manumit her, but her (inheritance) Al-Wala would be for us."
When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) came, I spoke to him about it. He said, "Buy her and manumit her. No doubt Al-Wala' is for the manumitted."
Then Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) stood on the pulpit (or Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) ascended the pulpit as Sufyan once said), and said, "What about some people who impose conditions which are not present in Allah's Book (Laws)? Whoever imposes conditions which are not in Allah's Book (Laws), his conditions will be invalid even if he imposed them a hundred times."
Hadith - 105
Narrated Ka`b: In the mosque, I asked Ibn Abi Hadrad to pay the debts which he owed to me, and our voices grew louder. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) heard that while he was in his house.
So he came to us raising the curtain of his room and said, "O Ka`b!" I replied, "Labbaik, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)!" He said, "O Ka`b! Reduce your debt to one half," gesturing with his hand.
I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! I have done so." Then Allah's Apostle said (to Ibn Abi Hadrad), "Get up and pay the debt to him."
Hadith - 106
Narrated Abu Huraira: A black man or a black woman used to sweep the mosque, and he or she died. The Prophet (ﷺ) asked about her (or him). He was told that she (or he) had died.
He said, "Why did you not inform me? Show me his grave (or her grave)." So he went to her (his) grave and offered her (his) funeral prayer.
Hadith - 107
Narrated `Aisha: When the verses of Surat "Al-Baqara" about the usury (Riba) were revealed, the Prophet (ﷺ) went to the mosque and recited them in front of the people, and then banned the trade of alcohol.
Hadith - 108
Narrated Abu Rafi: Abu Huraira said, "A man or a woman used to clean the mosque." (A sub-narrator said, 'Most probably a woman...') Then he narrated the Hadith of the Prophet that he prayed the funeral prayer at her grave.
Hadith - 109
Narrated Abu Huraira: "The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Last night a big demon (Ifreet) from the Jinns came to me and wanted to interrupt my prayers (or said something similar), but Allah enabled me to overpower him.
I wanted to fasten him to one of the pillars of the mosque so that all of you could see him in the morning, but I remembered the statement of my brother Solomon (as stated in Quran): My Lord! Forgive me and bestow on me a kingdom such as shall not belong to anybody after me." (Surah 38: Ayah 35)
The sub narrator Rauh said, "He (the demon) was dismissed humiliated."
Hadith - 110
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) sent some horsemen to Najd and they brought a man called Thumama bin Uthal from Bani Hanifa. They fastened him to one of the pillars of the mosque.
The Prophet (ﷺ) came and ordered them to release him. He went to a (garden of) date-palms near the mosque, took a bath and entered the mosque again and said, "None has the right to be worshipped but Allah and Muhammad is His Apostle" (i.e. he embraced Islam).
Hadith - 111
Narrated `Aisha: On the day of Al-Khandaq (battle of the Trench) the medial arm vein of Sa`d bin Mu`ad was injured, and the Prophet (ﷺ) pitched a tent in the mosque to look after him.
There was another tent for Banu Ghaffar in the mosque, and the blood started flowing from Sa`d's tent to the tent of Bani Ghaffar. They shouted, "O occupants of the tent! What is coming from you to us?" They found that Sa`d's wound was bleeding profusely and Sa`d died in his tent.
Hadith - 112
Narrated Um Salama: I complained to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) that I was sick. He told me to perform the Tawaf behind the people while riding.
So I did so, and Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was praying beside the Ka`ba and reciting the Surah At-Tur.
Hadith - 113
Narrated Anas bin Malik: Two of the companions of the Prophet (ﷺ) departed from him on a dark night and were led by two lights like lamps (going in front of them from Allah as a miracle) lighting the way in front of them, and when they parted, each of them was accompanied by one of these lights till he reached their (respective) houses.