Hadith - 114
Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri: The Prophet (ﷺ) delivered a sermon and said, "Allah gave a choice to one of His slaves either to choose this world or what is with Him in the Hereafter. He chose the latter." Abu Bakr wept.
I said to myself, "Why is this Sheikh weeping, if Allah gave choice to one of His slaves either to choose this world or what is with Him in the Hereafter, and he chose the latter?"
And that slave was Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) himself. Abu Bakr knew more than us. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O Abu Bakr! Don't weep."
The Prophet (ﷺ) added: Abu Bakr has favored me much with his property and company. If I were to take a Khalil from mankind I would certainly have taken Abu Bakr, but the Islamic brotherhood and friendship is sufficient. Close all the gates in the mosque except that of Abu Bakr.
Hadith - 115
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) in his fatal illness came out with a piece of cloth tied round his head and sat on the pulpit.
After thanking and praising Allah he said, "There is no one who had done more favor to me with life and property than Abu Bakr bin Abi Quhafa. If I were to take a Khalil, I would certainly have taken Abu Bakr, but the Islamic brotherhood is superior. Close all the small doors in this mosque except that of Abu Bakr."
Hadith - 116
Narrated Nafi`: Ibn `Umar said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) arrived at Mecca and sent for `Uthman bin Talha. He opened the gate of the Ka`ba and the Prophet, Bilal, Usama bin Zaid and `Uthman bin Talha entered the Ka`ba and then they closed its door (from inside). They stayed there for an hour, and then came out."
Ibn `Umar added, "I quickly went to Bilal and asked him (whether the Prophet (ﷺ) had prayed). Bilal replied, 'He prayed in it.' I asked, 'Where?' He replied, 'Between the two pillars.'"
Ibn `Umar added, "I forgot to ask how many rak`at he (the Prophet) had prayed in the Ka`ba."
Hadith - 117
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) sent some horsemen to Najd and they brought a man called Thumama bin Uthal from Bani Hanifa. They fastened him to one of the pillars of the mosque.
Hadith - 118
Narrated Al-Sa'ib bin Yazid: I was standing in the mosque and somebody threw a gravel at me. I looked and found that he was `Umar bin Al-Khattab. He said to me, "Fetch those two men to me."
When I did, he said to them, "Who are you? (Or) where do you come from?" They replied, "We are from Ta'if."
`Umar said, "Were you from this city (Medina) I would have punished you for raising your voices in the mosque of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)."
Hadith - 119
Narrated Ka`b bin Malik: During the lifetime of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), I asked Ibn Abi Hadrad in the mosque to pay the debts which he owed to me, and our voices grew so loud that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) heard them while he was in his house. So he came to us after raising the curtain of his room.
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O Ka`b bin Malik!" I replied, "Labbaik, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)." He gestured with his hand to me to reduce the debt to one half. I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), I have done it." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said to Ibn Abi Hadrad, "Get up and pay it."
Hadith - 120
Narrated Nafi`: Ibn `Umar said, "While the Prophet (ﷺ) was on the pulpit, a man asked him how to offer the night prayers.
He replied, 'Pray two rak`at at a time and then two and then two and so on, and if you are afraid of the dawn (the approach of the time of the Fajr prayer) pray one rak`a, and that will be the witr for all the rak`at which you have offered.'"
Ibn `Umar said, "The last rak`at of the night prayer should be odd, for the Prophet (ﷺ) ordered it to be so."
Hadith - 121
Narrated Ibn `Umar: A man came to the Prophet (ﷺ) while he was delivering the sermon and asked him how to offer the night prayers.
The Prophet (ﷺ) replied, 'Pray two rak`at at a time and then two and then two and so on, and if you are afraid of dawn (the approach of the time of the Fajr prayer) pray one rak`a, and that will be the witr for all the rak`at which you have prayed."
Narrated 'Ubaidullah bin `Abdullah bin `Umar: A man called the Prophet (ﷺ) while he was in the mosque.
Hadith - 122
Narrated Abu Waqid al-Laithi: While Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was sitting in the mosque (with some people) three men came, two of them came in front of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and the third one went away, and then one of them found a place in the circle and sat there, while the second man sat behind the gathering, and the third one went away.
When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) finished his preaching, he said, "Shall I tell you about these three persons? One of them betook himself to Allah and so Allah accepted him and accommodated him; the second felt shy before Allah so Allah did the same for him and sheltered him in His Mercy (and did not punish him), while the third turned his face from Allah, and went away, so Allah turned His face from him likewise."
Hadith - 123
Narrated `Abbad bin Tamim that his uncle said, "I saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) lying flat (on his back) in the mosque with one leg on the other." Narrated Sa`id bin Al-Musaiyab that `Umar and `Uthman used to do the same.
Hadith - 124
Narrated `Aisha (the wife of the Prophet): I had seen my parents following Islam since I attained the age of puberty. Not a day passed but the Prophet (ﷺ) visited us, both in the mornings and evenings.
My father Abu Bakr thought of building a mosque in the courtyard of his house and he did so. He used to pray and recite the Qur'an in it.
The pagan women and their children used to stand by him and look at him with surprise. Abu Bakr was a softhearted person and could not help weeping while reciting the Qur'an. The chiefs of the Quraish pagans became afraid of that (i.e. that their children and women might be affected by the recitation of Qur'an).
Hadith - 125
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The prayer offered in congregation is twenty five times more superior (in reward) to the prayer offered alone in one's house or in a business center, because if one performs ablution and does it perfectly, and then proceeds to the mosque with the sole intention of praying, then for each step which he takes towards the mosque, Allah upgrades him a degree in reward and (forgives) crosses out one sin till he enters the mosque.
When he enters the mosque, he is considered in prayer as long as he is waiting for the prayer, and the angels keep on asking for Allah's forgiveness for him and they keep on saying: 'O Allah! Be Merciful to him, O Allah! Forgive him', as long as he keeps on sitting at his praying place and does not pass wind."
Hadith - 126
Narrated Ibn `Umar or Ibn `Amr: The Prophet (ﷺ) clasped his hands, by interlacing his fingers.
Hadith - 127
Narrated `Abdullah: That Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "O `Abdullah bin `Amr! What will be your condition when you will be left with the sediments of (worst) people?" (They will be in conflict with each other).
Hadith - 128
Narrated Abu Musa: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "A faithful believer to a faithful believer is like the bricks of a wall, enforcing each other." While (saying that) the Prophet (ﷺ) clasped his hands, by interlacing his fingers.
Hadith - 129
Narrated Ibn Seereen: Abu Huraira said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) led us in one of the two `Isha' prayers (Abu Huraira named that prayer but I forgot it)."
Abu Huraira added, "He prayed two rak`at and then finished the prayer with Taslim. He stood up near a piece of wood lying across the mosque and leaned on it in such a way as if he was angry.
Then he put his right hand over the left and clasped his hands by interlacing his fingers and then put his right cheek on the back of his left hand.
The people who were in haste left the mosque through its gates. They wondered whether the prayer was reduced. And amongst them were Abu Bakr and `Umar, but they hesitated to ask the Prophet.
A long-handed man called Dhul Yadain asked the Prophet, 'O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Have you forgotten or has the prayer been reduced?' The Prophet (ﷺ) replied, 'I have neither forgotten nor has the prayer been reduced.' The Prophet (ﷺ) added, 'Is what Dhul Yadain has said true?' They (the people) said, 'Yes, it is true.'
The Prophet (ﷺ) stood up again and led the prayer, completing the remaining prayer, forgotten by him, and performed Taslim, and then said, "Allahu Akbar", and then he did a prostration as he used to prostrate or longer than that.
He then raised his head saying, "Allahu Akbar"; he then again said, "Allahu Akbar", and prostrated as he used to prostrate or longer than that. Then he raised his head and said, "Allahu Akbar."
The subnarrator added, "I think that they asked (Ibn Seereen) whether the Prophet (ﷺ) completed the prayer with Taslim. He replied, "I heard that `Imran bin Husain had said, 'Then he (the Prophet) did Taslim.'"
Hadith - 130
Narrated Fudail bin Sulaiman: Musa bin `Uqba said, "I saw Salim bin `Abdullah looking for some places on the way and prayed there. He narrated that his father used to pray there, and had seen the Prophet (ﷺ) praying at those very places."
Narrated Nafi` on the authority of Ibn `Umar who said, "I used to pray at those places." Musa, the narrator, added, "I asked Salim on which he said, 'I agree with Nafi` concerning those places, except the mosque situated at the place called Sharaf Ar-Rawha.'"
Hadith - 131 to 139
The narrated Hadith is about the various places on the way from Medina to Mecca where the Prophet (ﷺ) prayed, and is not translated.
Hadith - 140
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: Once I came riding a she-ass when I had just attained the age of puberty. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was offering the prayer at Mina with no wall in front of him, and I passed in front of some of the row.
There I dismounted and let my she-ass loose to graze and entered the row, and nobody objected to me about it.
Hadith - 141
Narrated Ibn `Umar: Whenever Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) came out on `Id day, he used to order that a Harba (a short spear) to be planted in front of him (as a Sutra for his prayer) and then he used to pray facing it with the people behind him, and used to do the same while on a journey.
After the Prophet (ﷺ), this practice was adopted by the Muslim rulers (who followed his traditions).
Hadith - 142
Narrated `Aun bin Abi Juhaifa: I heard my father saying, "The Prophet (ﷺ) led us, and prayed a two rak`at Zuhr prayer and then a two rak`at `Asr prayer at Al-Batha', with a short spear (planted) in front of him (as a Sutra), while women and donkeys were passing in front of him (beyond that stick).
Hadith - 143
Narrated Sahl bin Sa`d: The distance between the Musalla of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and the wall was just sufficient for a sheep to pass through.
Hadith - 144
Narrated Salama: The distance between the wall of the mosque and the pulpit was hardly enough for a sheep to pass through.
Hadith - 145
Narrated `Abdullah: The Prophet (ﷺ) used to get a Harba planted in front of him (as a Sutra) and pray behind it.
Hadith - 146
Narrated `Aun bin Abi Juhaifa that he had heard his father saying, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) came to us at midday and water was brought for his ablution.
He performed ablution and led us in Zuhr and `Asr prayers with a short spear (or stick) planted in front of him (as a Sutra), while women and donkeys were passing beyond it.
Hadith - 147
Narrated Anas Ibn Malik: Whenever the Prophet (ﷺ) went for answering the call of nature, I and another boy used to go after him with a staff, a stick or a short spear (or stick) and a tumbler of water, and when he finished from answering the call of nature we would hand that tumbler of water to him.
Hadith - 148
Narrated Abu Juhaifa: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) came out at midday and offered a two rak`at Zuhr and `Asr prayers at Al-Batha and a short spear (or stick) was planted in front of him (as a Sutra).
He performed ablution and the people took the remaining water left after his ablution and rubbed their bodies with it.
Hadith - 149
Narrated Yazid bin Al `Ubaid: I used to accompany Salama bin Al-Akwa` and he used to pray behind the pillar which was near the place where the Qur'ans were kept.
I said, "O Abu Muslim! I see you always seeking to pray behind this pillar." He replied, "I saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) always seeking to pray near that pillar."
Hadith - 150
Narrated Anas: I saw the most famous people amongst the companions of the Prophet (ﷺ) hurrying towards the pillars at the Maghrib prayer before the Prophet (ﷺ) came for the prayer.
Hadith - 151
Narrated Ibn `Umar: The Prophet (ﷺ) entered the Ka`ba along with Usama bin Zaid, `Uthman bin Talha and Bilal and remained there for a long time. When they came out, I was the first man to enter the Ka`ba.
I asked Bilal "Where did the Prophet (ﷺ) pray?" Bilal replied, "Between the two front Pillars."
Hadith - 152
Narrated Nafi`: `Abdullah bin `Umar said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) entered the Ka`ba along with Usama bin Zaid, Bilal and `Uthman bin Talha Al-Hajabi and closed the door and stayed there for some time.
I asked Bilal when he came out, 'What did the Prophet (ﷺ) do?' He replied, 'He offered prayer with one pillar to his left and one to his right and three behind.' In those days the Ka`ba was supported by six pillars." Malik said: "There were two pillars on his (the Prophet's) right side."
Hadith - 153
Narrated Nafi': Whenever 'Abdullah entered the Ka'bah, he used to go ahead, leaving the door of the Ka'bah behind him. He would proceed on till the remaining distance between him and the opposite wall was about three cubits.
Then he would offer prayer there, where the Prophet (ﷺ) had offered Salat, as Bilal informed me. Ibn 'Umar said, "It does not matter for any of us to offer prayers at any place inside the Ka'bah."
Hadith - 154
Narrated Nafi`: "The Prophet (ﷺ) used to make his she-camel sit across and he would pray facing it (as a Sutra)." I asked, "What would the Prophet (ﷺ) do if the she-camel was provoked and moved?"
He said, "He would take its camel-saddle and put it in front of him and pray facing its back part (as a Sutra). And Ibn `Umar used to do the same." (This indicates that one should not pray except behind a Sutra).
Hadith - 155
Narrated `Aisha: Do you make us (women) equal to dogs and donkeys? While I used to lie in my bed, the Prophet (ﷺ) would come and pray facing the middle of the bed.
I used to consider it not good to stand in front of him in his prayers. So I used to slip away slowly and quietly from the foot of the bed till I got out of my guilt.
Hadith - 156
Narrated Abu Sa`id: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, (what is ascribed to him in the following Hadith): Narrated Abu Salih As-Samman: I saw Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri praying on a Friday, behind something which acted as a Sutra.
A young man from Bani Abi Mu'ait, wanted to pass in front of him, but Abu Sa`id repulsed him with a push on his chest. Finding no alternative, he again tried to pass but Abu Sa`id pushed him with a greater force.
The young man abused Abu Sa`id and went to Marwan and lodged a complaint against Abu Sa`id, and Abu Sa`id followed the young man to Marwan, who asked him, "O Abu Sa`id! What has happened between you and the son of your brother?"
Abu Sa`id said to him, "I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, 'If anybody amongst you is praying behind something as a Sutra and somebody tries to pass in front of him, then he should repulse him and if he refuses, he should use force against him for he is a Shaitan (a Satan)."
Hadith - 157
Narrated Busr bin Sa`id that Zaid bin Khalid sent him to Abi Juhaim to ask him what he had heard from Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) about a person passing in front of another person who was praying.
Abu Juhaim replied, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, 'If the person who passes in front of another person in prayer knew the magnitude of his sin, he would prefer to wait for 40 (days, months or years) rather than to pass in front of him.'"
Abu An-Nadr said, "I do not remember exactly whether he said 40 days, months or years."
Hadith - 158
Narrated `Aisha: The things which annul the prayers were mentioned before me. They said, "Prayer is annulled by a dog, a donkey and a woman (if they pass in front of the praying people)."
I said, "You have made us (i.e. women) dogs. I saw the Prophet (ﷺ) praying while I used to lie in my bed between him and the Qibla. Whenever I was in need of something, I would slip away, for I disliked to face him."
Hadith - 159
Narrated `Aisha: The Prophet (ﷺ) used to pray while I was sleeping across in his bed in front of him. Whenever he wanted to pray witr, he would wake me up and I would pray witr.
Hadith - 160
Narrated `Aisha, the wife of the Prophet, "I used to sleep in front of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) with my legs opposite his Qibla (facing him); and whenever he prostrated, he pushed my feet and I withdrew them and whenever he stood, I stretched them." `Aisha added, "In those days there were no lamps in the houses."
Hadith - 161
Narrated `Aisha: The things which annul prayer were mentioned before me (and those were): a dog, a donkey and a woman. I said, "You have compared us (women) to donkeys and dogs.
By Allah! I saw the Prophet (ﷺ) praying while I used to lie in my bed between him and the Qibla. Whenever I was in need of something, I disliked to sit and trouble the Prophet. So, I would slip away by the side of his feet."
Hadith - 162
Narrated `Aisha (the wife of the Prophet): Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to get up at night and pray, while I used to lie across between him and the Qibla on his family's bed.
Hadith - 163
Narrated Abu Qatada Al-Ansari: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was praying and he was carrying Umama, the daughter of Zainab, the daughter of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and she was the daughter of 'As bin Rabi`a bin `Abd Shams. When he prostrated, he put her down and when he stood, he carried her (on his neck).
Hadith - 164
Narrated Maimuna bint Al-Harith: My bed was beside the praying place (Musalla) of the Prophet (ﷺ), and sometimes his garment fell on me while I used to lie in my bed.
Hadith - 165
Narrated Maimuna: The Prophet (ﷺ) used to pray while I used to sleep beside him during my periods (menses), and in prostration his garment used to touch me.
Hadith - 166
Narrated `Aisha: It is not good that you people have made us (women) equal to dogs and donkeys. No doubt I saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) praying while I used to lie between him and the Qibla, and when he wanted to prostrate, he pushed my legs and I withdrew them.
Hadith - 167
Narrated `Amr bin Maimun: `Abdullah bin Mas`ud said, "While Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was praying beside the Ka`ba, there were some Quraish people sitting in a gathering.
One of them said, 'Don't you see this (who does deeds just to show off)? Who amongst you can go and bring the dung, blood and the Abdominal contents (intestines etc) of the slaughtered camels of the family of so-and-so, and then wait till he prostrates and put that in between his shoulders?'
The most unfortunate amongst them (`Uqba bin Abi Mu'ait) went (and brought them) and when Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) prostrated, he put them between his shoulders. The Prophet remained in prostration, and they laughed so much so that they fell on each other.
A passerby went to Fatima, who was a young girl in those days. She came running and the Prophet (ﷺ) was still in prostration. She removed them and cursed upon the Quraish on their faces.
When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) completed his prayer, he said, 'O Allah! Take revenge on Quraish.' He said so thrice, and added, 'O Allah! Take revenge on `Amr bin Hisham, `Utba bin Rabi`a, Shaiba bin Rabi`a, Al-Walid bin `Utba, Umaiya bin Khalaf, `Uqba bin Abi Mu'ait and `Umara bin Al-Walid."
`Abdullah added, "By Allah! I saw all of them dead in the battlefield on the day of Badr, and they were dragged and thrown in the Qalib (a well) at Badr. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) then said: Allah's curse has descended upon the people of the Qalib (well)."