Hadith - 1
Narrated `Aisha: The commencement of the Divine Inspiration to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was in the form of good righteous (true) dreams in his sleep. He never had a dream but that it came true like bright daylight.
He used to go in seclusion to (the cave of) Hira where he used to worship (Allah Alone) continuously for many (days) nights. He used to take with him the journey food for that (stay) and then come back to (his wife) Khadija to take his food like-wise again for another period to stay, till suddenly the Truth descended upon him while he was in the cave of Hira.
The angel came to him in it and asked him to read. The Prophet (ﷺ) replied, "I do not know how to read." (The Prophet (ﷺ) added), "The angel caught me (forcefully) and pressed me so hard that I could not bear it anymore.
He then released me and again asked me to read, and I replied, "I do not know how to read," whereupon he caught me again and pressed me a second time till I could not bear it anymore.
He then released me and asked me again to read, but again I replied, "I do not know how to read (or, what shall I read?)"
Thereupon he caught me for the third time and pressed me and then released me and said, "Read: In the Name of your Lord, Who has created (all that exists). Has created man from a clot. Read and Your Lord is Most Generous ... up to ... that which he knew not." (Surah 96: Ayat 1-5)
Then Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) returned with the Inspiration, his neck muscles twitching with terror till he entered upon Khadija and said, "Cover me! Cover me!" They covered him till his fear was over and then he said, "O Khadija, what is wrong with me?" Then he told her everything that had happened and said, "I fear that something may happen to me."
Khadija said, 'Never! But have the glad tidings, for by Allah, Allah will never disgrace you as you keep good relations with your Kith and kin, speak the truth, help the poor and the destitute, serve your guest generously and assist the deserving, calamity-afflicted ones."
Khadija then accompanied him to (her cousin) Waraqa bin Naufal bin Asad bin `Abdul `Uzza bin Qusai. Waraqa was the son of her paternal uncle, i.e., her father's brother, who during the Pre-Islamic Period became a Christian and used to write the Arabic writing and used to write of the Gospels in Arabic as much as Allah wished him to write. He was an old man and had lost his eyesight.
Khadija said to him, "O my cousin! Listen to the story of your nephew." Waraqa asked, "O my nephew! What have you seen?" The Prophet (ﷺ) described whatever he had seen. Waraqa said, "This is the same Namus (i.e., Gabriel, the Angel who keeps the secrets) whom Allah had sent to Moses. I wish I were young and could live up to the time when your people would turn you out."
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) asked, "Will they turn me out?" Waraqa replied in the affirmative and said, "Never did a man come with something similar to what you have brought but was treated with hostility. If I should remain alive till the day when you will be turned out, then I would support you strongly."
But after a few days Waraqa died and the Divine Inspiration was also paused for a while and the Prophet (ﷺ) became so sad as we have heard that he intended several times to throw himself from the tops of high mountains, and every time he went up the top of a mountain in order to throw himself down, Gabriel would appear before him and say, "O Muhammad! You are indeed Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) in truth," whereupon his heart would become quiet and he would calm down and would return home.
And whenever the period of the coming of the inspiration used to become long, he would do as before, but when he used to reach the top of a mountain, Gabriel would appear before him and say to him what he had said before.
Ibn `Abbas said regarding the meaning of: 'He it is that Cleaves the daybreak (from the darkness)' (Surah 6: Ayah 96) that Al-Isbah means the light of the sun during the day and the light of the moon at night.
Hadith - 2
Narrated Anas bin Malik: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "A good dream (that comes true) of a righteous man is one of forty-six parts of prophetism."
Hadith - 3
Narrated Abu Qatada: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "A true good dream is from Allah, and a bad dream is from Satan."
Hadith - 4
Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If anyone of you sees a dream that he likes, then it is from Allah, and he should thank Allah for it and narrate it to others; but if he sees something else, i.e., a dream that he dislikes, then it is from Satan, and he should seek refuge with Allah from its evil, and he should not mention it to anybody, for it will not harm him."
Hadith - 5
Narrated Abu Qatada: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "A good dream that comes true is from Allah, and a bad dream is from Satan, so if anyone of you sees a bad dream, he should seek refuge with Allah from Satan and should spit on the left, for the bad dream will not harm him."
Hadith - 6
Narrated 'Ubada bin As-Samit: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The (good) dreams of a faithful believer is a part of the forty-six parts of prophetism."
Hadith - 7
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The (good) dream of a faithful believer is a part of the forty-six parts of prophetism."
Hadith - 8
Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri: I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "A good dream is a part of the forty six parts of prophetism."
Hadith - 9
Narrated Abu Huraira: I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "Nothing is left of the prophetism except Al-Mubashshirat." They asked, "What are Al-Mubashshirat?" He replied, "The true good dreams (that conveys glad tidings)."
Hadith - 10
Narrated Ibn `Umar: Some people were shown the Night of Qadr as being in the last seven days (of the month of Ramadan). The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Seek it in the last seven days (of Ramadan)."
Hadith - 11
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If I stayed in prison as long as Joseph stayed and then the messenger came, I would respond to his call (to go out of the prison)."
Hadith - 12
Narrated Abu Huraira: I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "Whoever sees me in a dream will see me in his wakefulness, and Satan cannot imitate me in shape." Abu `Abdullah said, "Ibn Seereen said, 'Only if he sees the Prophet (ﷺ) in his (real) shape.'"
Hadith - 13
Narrated Anas: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Whoever has seen me in a dream, then no doubt, he has seen me, for Satan cannot imitate my shape."
Hadith - 14
Narrated Abu Qatada: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "A good dream is from Allah, and a bad dream is from Satan.
So whoever has seen (in a dream) something he dislikes, then he should spit without saliva thrice on his left and seek refuge with Allah from Satan, for it will not harm him, and Satan cannot appear in my shape."
Hadith - 15
Narrated Abu Qatada: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Whoever sees me (in a dream) then he indeed has seen the truth."
Hadith - 16
Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Whoever sees me (in a dream) then he indeed has seen the truth, as Satan cannot appear in my shape."
Hadith - 17
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I have been given the keys of eloquent speech and given victory with awe (cast into the hearts of the enemy), and while I was sleeping last night, the keys of the treasures of the earth were brought to me till they were put in my hand."
Abu Huraira added: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) left (this world) and now you people are carrying those treasures from place to place.
Hadith - 18
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "I saw myself (in a dream) near the Ka`ba last night, and I saw a man with whitish red complexion, the best you may see amongst men of that complexion, having long hair reaching his earlobes which was the best hair of its sort, and he had combed his hair and water was dropping from it, and he was performing the Tawaf around the Ka`ba while he was leaning on two men or on the shoulders of two men.
I asked, 'Who is this man?' Somebody replied, '(He is) Messiah, son of Mary.'
Then I saw another man with very curly hair, blind in the right eye which looked like a protruding out grape. I asked, 'Who is this?' Somebody replied, '(He is) Messiah, Ad-Dajjal.'"
Hadith - 19
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: About a man who came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and said, "I was shown in a dream last night..." Then Ibn `Abbas mentioned the narration.
Hadith - 20
Narrated Anas bin Malik: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to visit Um Haram bint Milhan, she was the wife of 'Ubada bin As-Samit. One day, the Prophet (ﷺ) visited her and she provided him with food and started looking for lice in his head.
Then Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) slept and afterwards woke up smiling. Um Haram asked, "What makes you smile, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)?"
He said, "Some of my followers were presented before me in my dream as fighters in Allah's Cause, sailing in the middle of the seas like kings on the thrones or like kings sitting on their thrones." (The narrator 'Is-haq is not sure as to which expression was correct).
Um Haram added, 'I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Invoke Allah to make me one of them." So Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) invoked Allah for her and then laid his head down (and slept).
Then he woke up smiling (again). (Um Haram added): I said, "What makes you smile, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)?" He said, "Some people of my followers were presented before me (in a dream) as fighters in Allah's Cause." He said the same as he had said before.
I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Invoke Allah to make me from them." He said, "You are among the first ones."
Then Um Haram sailed over the sea during the Caliphate of Muawiya bin Abu Sufyan, and she fell down from her riding animal after coming ashore, and died.
Hadith - 21
Narrated Kharija bin Zaid bin Thabit: Um Al-`Ala, an Ansari woman who had given a pledge of allegiance to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), told me: "The Muhajirin (emigrants) were distributed amongst us by drawing lots, and we got `Uthman bin Maz'un in our share.
We made him stay with us in our house. Then he suffered from a disease which proved fatal.
When he died and was given a bath and was shrouded in his clothes, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) came. I said, (addressing the dead body), 'O Aba As-Sa'ib! May Allah be Merciful to you! I testify that Allah has honored you.'
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, 'How do you know that Allah has honored him?' I replied, 'Let my father be sacrificed for you, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! On whom else shall Allah bestow His honor?'
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, 'As for him, by Allah, death has come to him. By Allah, I wish him all good (from Allah). By Allah, in spite of the fact that I am Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), I do not know what Allah will do to me.'
Um Al-`Ala added, "By Allah, I will never attest the righteousness of anybody after that."
Hadith - 22
Narrated Az-Zuhri (regarding the above narration): The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I do not know what Allah will do to him (Uthman bin Maz'un)."
Um Al-`Ala said, 'I felt very sorry for that, and then I slept and saw in a dream a flowing spring for `Uthman bin Maz'un, and told Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) of that, and he said, "That flowing spring symbolizes his good deeds."'
Hadith - 23
Narrated Abu Qatada Al-Ansari (a companion of the Prophet (ﷺ) and one of his cavalry men): I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "A good dream is from Allah, and a bad dream is from Satan; so, if anyone of you had a bad dream which he disliked, then he should spit on his left and seek refuge with Allah from it, for it will not harm him."
Hadith - 24
Narrated Ibn `Umar: I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "While I was sleeping, I was given a bowl full of milk (in a dream), and I drank of it to my fill until I noticed its wetness coming out of my nails, and then I gave the rest of it to `Umar."
They (the people) asked, "What have you interpreted (about the dream), O Allah's Apostle?" He said, "(It is Religious) knowledge."
Hadith - 25
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "While I was sleeping, I was given a bowl full of milk (in the dream) and I drank from it (to my fill) till I noticed its wetness coming out of my limbs. Then I gave the rest of it to `Umar bin Al-Khattab."
The persons sitting around him, asked, "What have you interpreted (about the dream), O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)?" He said, "(It is religious) knowledge."
Hadith - 26
Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "While I was sleeping, some people were displayed before me (in a dream). They were wearing shirts, some of which were merely covering their breasts, and some a bit longer. Then there passed before me `Umar bin Al-Khattab wearing a shirt, and he was dragging it (on the ground behind him.)"
They (the people) asked, "What have you interpreted (about the dream), O Allah's Apostle?" He said, "The Religion."
Hadith - 27
Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri: I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "While I was sleeping, I saw (in a dream) the people being displayed before me, wearing shirts, some of which (were so short that it) reached as far as their breasts and some reached below that.
Then `Umar bin Al-Khattab was shown to me and he was wearing a shirt which he was dragging (behind him)." They asked, "What have you interpreted (about the dream), O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)?" He said, "The religion."
Hadith - 28
Narrated Qais bin 'Ubada: I was sitting in a gathering in which there was Sa`d bin Malik and Ibn `Umar. `Abdullah bin Salam passed in front of them and they said, "This man is from the people of Paradise." I said to `Abdullah bin Salam, "They said so-and-so."
He replied, "Subhan Allah! They ought not to have said things of which they have no knowledge, but I saw (in a dream) that a post was fixed in a green garden. At the top of the post there was a handhold and below it there was a servant. I was asked to climb (the post). So I climbed it till I got hold of the handhold.
Then I narrated this dream to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). Allah's Apostle said, "`Abdullah will die while still holding the firm reliable handhold (i.e., Islam)."
Hadith - 29
Narrated `Aisha: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said (to me), "You were shown to me twice in (my) dream.
Behold, a man was carrying you in a silken piece of cloth and said to me, "She is your wife, so uncover her,' and behold, it was you. I would then say (to myself), 'If this is from Allah, then it must happen.'"
Hadith - 30
Narrated `Aisha: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said to me, "You were shown to me twice (in my dream) before I married you. I saw an angel carrying you in a silken piece of cloth, and I said to him, 'Uncover (her),' and behold, it was you. I said (to myself), 'If this is from Allah, then it must happen.'
Then you were shown to me, the angel carrying you in a silken piece of cloth, and I said (to him), 'Uncover (her),' and behold, it was you. I said (to myself), 'If this is from Allah, then it must happen.'"
Hadith - 31
Narrated Abu Huraira: I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "I have been sent with Jawami al-Kalim (i.e., the shortest expression carrying the widest meanings), and I was made victorious with awe (cast into the hearts of the enemy), and while I was sleeping, the keys of the treasures of the earth were brought to me and were put in my hand."
Muhammad said, "Jawami'-al-Kalim means that Allah expresses in one or two statements or thereabouts the numerous matters that used to be written in the books revealed before (the coming of) the Prophet."
Hadith - 32
Narrated `Abdullah bin Salam: (In a dream) I saw myself in a garden, and there was a pillar in the middle of the garden, and there was a handhold at the top of the pillar. I was asked to climb it. I said, "I cannot."
Then a servant came and lifted up my clothes and I climbed (the pillar), and then got hold of the handhold, and I woke up while still holding it.
I narrated that to the Prophet (ﷺ) who said, "The garden symbolizes the garden of Islam, and the handhold is the firm Islamic handhold which indicates that you will be adhering firmly to Islam until you die."
Hadith - 33
Narrated Ibn `Umar: I saw in a dream a piece of silken cloth in my hand, and in whatever direction in Paradise I waved it, it flew, carrying me there.
I narrated this (dream) to (my sister) Hafsa and she told it to the Prophet (ﷺ) who said, (to Hafsa), "Indeed, your brother is a righteous man," or, "Indeed, `Abdullah is a righteous man."