Hadith - 34
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "When the Day of Resurrection approaches, the dreams of a believer will hardly fail to come true, and a dream of a believer is one of forty-six parts of prophetism, and whatever belongs to prophetism can never be false."
Muhammad bin Seereen said, "But I say this." He said, "It used to be said, 'There are three types of dreams: The reflection of one's thoughts and experiences one has during wakefulness, what is suggested by Satan to frighten the dreamer, or glad tidings from Allah.
So, if someone has a dream which he dislikes, he should not tell it to others, but get up and offer a prayer."
He added, "He (Abu Huraira) hated to see a Ghul (i.e., iron collar around his neck in a dream) and people liked to see fetters (on their feet in a dream). The fetters on the feet symbolizes one's constant and firm adherence to religion."
And Abu `Abdullah said, "Ghuls (iron collars) are used only for necks."
Hadith - 35
Narrated Kharija bin Zaid bin Thabit: Um Al-`Ala, an Ansari woman who had given the Pledge of allegiance to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "`Uthman bin Maz'un came in our share when the Ansars drew lots to distribute the emigrants (to dwell) among themselves.
He became sick and we looked after (nursed) him till he died. Then we shrouded him in his clothes.
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) came to us, I (addressing the dead body) said, "May Allah's Mercy be on you, O Aba As-Sa'ib! I testify that Allah has honored you." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'How do you know that?' I replied, 'I do not know, by Allah.'
He said, 'As for him, death has come to him and I wish him all good from Allah. By Allah, though I am Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), I neither know what will happen to me, nor to you.'"
Um Al-`Ala said, "By Allah, I will never attest the righteousness of anybody after that."
She added, "Later I saw in a dream, a flowing spring for `Uthman. So I went to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and mentioned that to him. He said, 'That is (the symbol of) his good deeds (the reward for) which is going on for him.'"
Hadith - 36
Narrated Ibn `Umar: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "(I saw in a dream that) while I was standing at a well and drawing water therefrom, suddenly Abu Bakr and `Umar came to me.
Abu Bakr took the bucket and drew one or two buckets (full of water), but there was weakness in his pulling, but Allah forgave him.
Then Ibn Al-Khattab took the bucket from Abu Bakr's hand and the bucket turned into a very large one in his hand. I have never seen any strong man among the people doing such a hard job as `Umar did, till (the people drank to their satisfaction) and watered their camels to their fill and they sat near the water."
Hadith - 37
Narrated Salim's father about the Prophet's dream in which he has seen Abu Bakr and `Umar: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I saw (in a dream) that the people had gathered.
Then Abu Bakr stood up and pulled out one or two buckets full of water (from a well) and there was weakness in his pulling - may Allah forgive him.
Then Ibn Al-Khattab stood up, and the bucket turned into a very large one and I have never seen any strong man among the people doing such a hard job.
He pulled out so much water that the people (drank to their satisfaction) and watered their camels to their fill, (and then after quenching their thirst) they sat beside the water."
Hadith - 38
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "While I was sleeping, I saw myself standing at a well over which there was a bucket.
I pulled out from it as many buckets of water as Allah wished, and then Ibn Abi Quhafa (Abu Bakr) took the bucket from me and pulled out one or two full buckets, and there was weakness in his pull - may Allah forgive him.
Then the bucket turned into a very large one and `Umar bin Al-Khattab took it. I have never seen any strong man among the people drawing water with such strength as `Umar did, till the people (drank to their satisfaction and) watered their camels to their fill; whereupon the camels sat beside the water."
Hadith - 39
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "While I was sleeping, I saw myself standing over a tank (well) giving water to the people to drink.
Then Abu Bakr came to me and took the bucket from me in order to relieve me and he pulled out one or two full buckets, and there was weakness in his pulling - may Allah forgive him.
Then Ibn Al-Khattab took it from him and went on drawing water till the people left (after being satisfied) while the tank was over flowing with water."
Hadith - 40
Narrated Abu Huraira: We were sitting with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), he said, "While I was sleeping, I saw myself in Paradise. Suddenly I saw a woman performing ablution beside a palace.
I asked, "For whom is this palace?" They (the angels) replied, "It is for `Umar bin Al-Khattab." Then I remembered `Umar's ghira and went back hurriedly."
On hearing that, `Umar started weeping and said, "Let my father and mother be sacrificed for you, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! How dare I think of my Ghira being offended by you?"
Hadith - 41
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said: "(I saw in a dream that) I entered Paradise, and behold, there was a palace built of gold! I asked, 'For whom is this palace?' They (the angels) replied, 'For a man from the Quraish.'"
The Prophet added, "O Ibn Al-Khattab! Nothing stopped me from entering it except your Ghira." `Umar said, "How dare I think of my Ghira being offended by you, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)?"
Hadith - 42
Narrated Abu Huraira: We were sitting with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), he said, "While I was sleeping, I saw myself in Paradise, and behold, a woman was performing ablution by the side of a palace.
I asked, 'For whom is this palace?' They replied, 'For `Umar.' Then I remembered the Ghira of `Umar and returned immediately.
 `Umar wept (on hearing that) and said, "Let my father and mother be sacrificed for you, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! How dare I think of my Ghira being offended by you."
Hadith - 43
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "While I was sleeping, I saw myself performing the Tawaf of the Ka`ba. Behold, there I saw a whitish-red lank-haired man (holding himself) between two men with water dropping from his hair.
I asked, 'Who is this?' The people replied, 'He is the son of Mary.'
Then I turned my face to see another man with red complexion, big body, curly hair, and blind in the right eye which looked like a protruding out grape.
I asked, 'Who is he?' They replied, 'He is Ad-Dajjal.' Ibn Qatan resembles him more than anybody else among the people, and Ibn Qatan was a man from Bani Al-Mustaliq from Khuza`a."
Hadith - 44
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar: I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "While I was sleeping, I saw a bowl full of milk was brought to me, and I drank of it (to my fill) till I noticed its wetness flowing (in my body). Then I gave the remaining of it to `Umar."
They asked, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! What have you interpreted (about the dream)?" He said, "(It is Religious) knowledge."
Hadith - 45
Narrated Ibn `Umar: Men from the companions of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to see dreams during the lifetime of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and they used to narrate those dreams to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) would interpret them as Allah wished.
I was a young man and used to stay in the mosque before my wedlock. I said to myself, "If there were any good in myself, I too would see what these people see." So when I went to bed one night, I said, "O Allah! If you see any good in me, show me a good dream."
So while I was in that state, there came to me (in a dream) two angels. In the hand of each of them, there was a mace of iron, and both of them were taking me to Hell, and I was between them, invoking Allah, "O Allah! I seek refuge with You from Hell."
Then I saw myself being confronted by another angel holding a mace of iron in his hand. He said to me, "Do not be afraid, you will be an excellent man if you only pray more often."
So they took me till they stopped me at the edge of Hell, and behold, it was built inside like a well and it had side posts like those of a well, and beside each post there was an angel carrying an iron mace.
I saw therein many people hanging upside down with iron chains, and I recognized therein some men from the Quraish. Then (the angels) took me to the right side.
I narrated this dream to (my sister) Hafsa and she told it to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "No doubt, `Abdullah is a good man." (Nafi` said, "Since then `Abdullah bin `Umar used to pray much").
Hadith - 46
Narrated Ibn `Umar: I was a young unmarried man during the lifetime of the Prophet. I used to sleep in the mosque. Anyone who had a dream, would narrate it to the Prophet. I said, "O Allah! If there is any good for me with You, then show me a dream so that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) may interpret it for me."
So I slept and saw (in a dream) two angels came to me and took me along with them, and they met another angel who said to me, "Don't be afraid, you are a good man."
They took me towards the Fire, and behold, it was built inside like a well, and therein I saw people some of whom I recognized, and then the angels took me to the right side.
In the morning, I mentioned that dream to Hafsa. Hafsa told me that she had mentioned it to the Prophet (ﷺ) and he said, "`Abdullah is a righteous man, if he only prays more at night." (Az-Zuhri said, "After that, `Abdullah used to pray more at night").
Hadith - 47
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar: I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "While I was sleeping, I saw that a cup full of milk was brought to me and I drank of it and gave the remaining of it to `Umar bin Al-Khattab."
They asked, "What have you interpreted (about the dream), O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "(It is Religious) knowledge."
Hadith - 48
Narrated Ubaidullah bin Abdullah: I asked Ibn Abbas about the dream of Allah's Messenger which he mentioned. (See following hadith).
Hadith - 49
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Abbas: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "While I was sleeping, two golden bangles were put in my two hands, so I got scared (frightened) and disliked it, but I was given permission to blow them off, and they flew away. I interpret it as a symbol of two liars who will appear."
'Ubaidullah said, "One of them was Al-`Ansi who was killed by Fairuz at Yemen, and the other was Musailama (at Najd)."
Hadith - 50
Narrated Abu Musa: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I saw in a dream that I was migrating from Mecca to a land where there were date palm trees. I thought that it might be the land of Al-Yamama or Hajar, but behold, it turned out to be Yathrib (i.e. Medina).
And I saw cows (being slaughtered) there, but the reward given by Allah is better (than worldly benefits).
Behold, those cows proved to symbolize the believers (who were killed) on the Day (of the battle) of Uhud, and the good (which I saw in the dream) was the good and the reward and the truth which Allah bestowed upon us after the Badr battle (or the Battle of Uhud) and that was the victory bestowed by Allah in the Battle of Khaibar and the conquest of Mecca."
Hadith - 51
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "We (Muslims) are the last (to come) but (will be) the foremost (on the Day of Resurrection)."
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) further said, "While sleeping, I was given the treasures of the world and two golden bangles were put in my hands, but I felt much annoyed, and those two bangles distressed me very much, but I was inspired that I should blow them off, so I blew them and they flew away.
Then I interpreted that those two bangles were the liars between whom I was (i.e., the one of San`a' and the one of Yamama)."
Hadith - 52
Narrated `Abdullah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I saw (in a dream) a black woman with unkempt hair going out of Medina and settling at Mah'ya', i.e., Al-Juhfa. I interpreted that as a symbol of epidemic of Medina being transferred to that place (Al-Juhfa)."
Hadith - 53
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar concerning the dream of the Prophet (ﷺ) in Medina: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I saw (in a dream) a black woman with unkempt hair going out of Medina and settling at Mah'ya'. I interpreted that as (a symbol of) the epidemic of Medina being transferred to Mah'ya', namely, Al-Juhfa."
Hadith - 54
Narrated Salim's father: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I saw (in a dream) a black woman with unkempt hair going out of Medina and settling in Mah'ya'. I interpreted that as (a symbol of) epidemic of Medina being transferred to Mah'ya', namely, Al-Juhfa."
Hadith - 55
Narrated Abu Musa: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I saw in a dream that I waved a sword and it broke in the middle, and behold, that symbolized the casualties the believers suffered on the Day (of the battle) of Uhud.
Then I waved the sword again, and it became better than it had ever been before, and behold, that symbolized the Conquest (of Mecca) which Allah brought about and the gathering of the believers."
Hadith - 56
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Whoever claims to have seen a dream which he did not see, will be ordered to make a knot between two barley grains which he will not be able to do; and if somebody listens to the talk of some people who do not like him (to listen) or they run away from him, then molten lead will be poured into his ears on the Day of Resurrection; and whoever makes a picture, will be punished on the Day of Resurrection and will be ordered to put a soul in that picture, which he will not be able to do."
Ibn `Abbas also narrated a similar hadith.
Hadith - 57
Narrated Ibn `Umar: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The worst lie is that a person claims to have seen a dream which he has not seen."
Hadith - 58
Narrated Abu Salama: I used to see a dream which would make me sick till I heard Abu Qatada saying, 'I too, used to see a dream which would make me sick till I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "A good dream is from Allah, so if anyone of you saw a dream which he liked, he should not tell it to anybody except to the one whom he loves, and if he saw a dream which he disliked, then he should seek refuge with Allah from its evil and from the evil of Satan, and spit three times (on his left) and should not tell it to anybody, for it will not harm him."'
Hadith - 59
Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri: I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "If anyone of you saw a dream which he liked, then that was from Allah, and he should thank Allah for it and tell it to others.
But if he saw something else, i.e, a dream which he did not like, then that is from Satan and he should seek refuge with Allah from it and should not tell it to anybody, for it will not harm him."
Hadith - 60
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: A man came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and said, "I saw in a dream, a cloud having shade. Butter and honey were dropping from it and I saw the people gathering it in their hands, some gathering much and some a little.
And behold, there was a rope extending from the earth to the sky, and I saw that you (the Prophet) held it and went up, and then another man held it and went up and (after that) another (third) held it and went up, and then after another (fourth) man held it, but it broke and then got connected again."
Abu Bakr said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Let my father be sacrificed for you! Allow me to interpret this dream." The Prophet (ﷺ) said to him, "Interpret it."
Abu Bakr said, "The cloud with shade symbolizes Islam, and the butter and honey dropping from it symbolizes the Qur'an, its sweetness dropping and some people learning much of the Qur'an and some a little.
The rope which is extended from the sky to the earth is the Truth which you (the Prophet) are following. You follow it and Allah will raise you high with it, and then another man will follow it and will rise up with it, and another person will follow it, and then another man will follow it but it will break and then it will be connected for him and he will rise up with it. O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Let my father be sacrificed for you! Am I right or wrong?"
The Prophet replied, "You are right in some of it and wrong in some." Abu Bakr said, "O Allah's Prophet! By Allah, you must tell me in what I was wrong." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Do not swear."
Hadith - 61
Narrated Samura bin Jundub: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) very often used to ask his companions, "Did anyone of you see a dream?" So dreams would be narrated to him by those whom Allah wished to tell.
One morning the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Last night two persons came to me (in a dream) and woke me up and said to me, 'Proceed!'
I set out with them and we came across a man lying down, and behold, another man was standing over his head, holding a big rock. Behold, he was throwing the rock at the man's head, injuring it. The rock rolled away and the thrower followed it and took it back.
By the time he reached the man, his head returned to the normal state. The thrower then did the same as he had done before. I said to my two companions, "Subhan Allah! Who are these two persons?" They said, "Proceed!"
So we proceeded and came to a man lying flat on his back and another man standing over his head with an iron hook, and behold, he would put the hook in one side of the man's mouth and tear off that side of his face to the back (of the neck) and similarly tear his nose from front to back and his eye from front to back.
Then he turned to the other side of the man's face and did just as he had done with the other side. He hardly completed this side when the other side returned to its normal state.
Then he returned to it to repeat what he had done before. I said to my two companions, "Subhan Allah! Who are these two persons?" They said to me, "Proceed!"
So we proceeded and came across something like a Tannur (a kind of baking oven, a pit usually clay-lined for baking bread)." I think the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "In that oven there was much noise and voices."
The Prophet (ﷺ) added, "We looked into it and found naked men and women, and behold, a flame of fire was reaching to them from underneath, and when it reached them, they cried loudly. I asked them, 'Who are these?' They said to me, 'Proceed!'
And so we proceeded and came across a river." I think he said, "...red like blood." The Prophet (ﷺ) added, "And behold, in the river there was a man swimming, and on the bank there was a man who had collected many stones.
Behold, while the other man was swimming, he went near him. The former opened his mouth and the latter (on the bank) threw a stone into his mouth whereupon he went swimming again.
He returned and every time the performance was repeated. I asked my two companions, 'Who are these (two) persons?' They replied, 'Proceed! Proceed!'
And we proceeded till we came to a man with a repulsive appearance, the most repulsive appearance, you ever saw a man having! Beside him there was a fire and he was kindling it and running around it.
I asked my companions, 'Who is this (man)?' They said to me, 'Proceed! Proceed!'
So we proceeded till we reached a garden of deep green dense vegetation, having all sorts of spring colors. In the midst of the garden there was a very tall man and I could hardly see his head because of his great height, and around him there were children in such a large number as I have never seen.
I said to my companions, 'Who is this?' They replied, 'Proceed! Proceed!'
So we proceeded till we came to a majestic huge garden, greater and better than I have ever seen! My two companions said to me, 'Go up,' and I went up."
The Prophet (ﷺ) added, "So we ascended till we reached a city built of gold and silver bricks and we went to its gate and asked (the gatekeeper) to open the gate, and it was opened and we entered the city and found in it, men with one side of their bodies as handsome as the handsomest person you have ever seen, and the other side as ugly as the ugliest person you have ever seen.
My two companions ordered those men to throw themselves into the river. Behold, there was a river flowing across (the city), and its water was like milk in whiteness. Those men went and threw themselves in it and then returned to us after the ugliness (of their bodies) had disappeared and they became in the best shape."
The Prophet (ﷺ) further added, "My two companions (angels) said to me, 'This place is the Eden Paradise, and that is your place.' I raised up my sight, and behold, there I saw a palace like a white cloud! My two companions said to me, 'That (palace) is your place.'
I said to them, 'May Allah bless you both! Let me enter it.' They replied, 'As for now, you will not enter it, but you shall enter it (one day).'
I said to them, 'I have seen many wonders tonight. What does all that mean which I have seen?' They replied, 'We will inform you: As for the first man you came upon whose head was being injured with the rock, he is the symbol of the one who studies the Qur'an and then neither recites it nor acts on its orders, and sleeps, neglecting the enjoined prayers.
As for the man you came upon whose sides of mouth, nostrils and eyes were torn off from front to back, he is the symbol of the man who goes out of his house in the morning and tells so many lies that it spreads all over the world.
And those naked men and women whom you saw in a construction resembling an oven, they are the adulterers and the adulteresses.
And the man whom you saw swimming in the river and given a stone to swallow, is the eater of usury (Riba).
And the bad looking man whom you saw near the fire kindling it and going round it is Malik, the gatekeeper of Hell.
And the tall man whom you saw in the garden is Abraham, and the children around him are those children who die with Al-Fitra (the Islamic Faith)."
The narrator added: Some Muslims asked the Prophet, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! What about the children of pagans?" The Prophet (ﷺ) replied, "And also the children of pagans."
The Prophet (ﷺ) added, "My two companions added, 'The men you saw half handsome and half ugly were those persons who had mixed an act that was good with another that was bad, but Allah forgave them.'"