Hadith - 1
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Whoever obeys me, obeys Allah, and whoever disobeys me, disobeys Allah, and whoever obeys the ruler I appoint, obeys me, and whoever disobeys him, disobeys me."
Hadith - 2
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Surely! Everyone of you is a guardian and is responsible for his charges: The Imam (ruler) of the people is a guardian and is responsible for his subjects; a man is the guardian of his family (household) and is responsible for his subjects; a woman is the guardian of her husband's home and of his children and is responsible for them; and the slave of a man is a guardian of his master's property and is responsible for it.
Surely, everyone of you is a guardian and responsible for his charges."
Hadith - 3
Narrated Muhammad bin Jubair bin Mut`im: That while he was included in a delegation of Quraish staying with Muawiya, Muawiya heard that `Abdullah bin `Amr had said that there would be a king from Qahtan tribe, whereupon he became very angry.
He stood up, and after glorifying and praising Allah as He deserved, said, "To proceed, I have come to know that some of you men are narrating things which are neither in Allah's Book, nor has been mentioned by Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). Such people are the ignorant among you.
Beware of such vain desires that mislead those who have them. I have heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, 'This matter (of the caliphate) will remain with the Quraish, and none will rebel against them, but Allah will throw him down on his face as long as they stick to the rules and regulations of the religion (Islam).'"
Hadith - 4
Narrated Ibn `Umar: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "This matter (caliphate) will remain with the Quraish, even if only two of them were still existing."
Hadith - 5
Narrated `Abdullah: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Do not wish to be like anyone, except in two cases: (1) A man whom Allah has given wealth and he spends it righteously, (2) A man whom Allah has given wisdom (knowledge of the Qur'an and the Hadith) and he acts according to it and teaches it to others."
Hadith - 6
Narrated Anas bin Malik: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "You should listen to and obey your ruler even if he was an Ethiopian (black) slave whose head looks like a raisin."
Hadith - 7
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If somebody sees his Muslim ruler doing something he disapproves of, he should be patient, for whoever becomes separate from the Muslim group even for a span and then dies, he will die as those who died in the Pre-Islamic period of ignorance (as rebellious sinners)."
Hadith - 8
Narrated `Abdullah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "A Muslim has to listen to and obey (the order of his ruler) whether he likes it or not, as long as his orders involve not one in disobedience (to Allah), but if an act of disobedience (to Allah) is imposed, one should not listen to it or obey it."
Hadith - 9
Narrated `Ali: The Prophet (ﷺ) sent an army unit (for some campaign) and appointed a man from the Ansar as its commander and ordered them (the soldiers) to obey him.
(During the campaign) he became angry with them and said, "Didn't the Prophet (ﷺ) order you to obey me?" They said, "Yes."
He said, "I order you to collect wood and make a fire and then throw yourselves into it."
So they collected wood and made a fire, but when they were about to throw themselves into it they started looking at each other, and some of them said, "We followed the Prophet (ﷺ) to escape from the fire. How should we enter it now?" So while they were in that state, the fire extinguished and their commander's anger abated.
The event was mentioned to the Prophet (ﷺ) and he said, "If they had entered it (the fire) they would never have come out of it, for obedience is required only in what is good."
Hadith - 10
Narrated `Abdur-Rahman bin Samura: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O `Abdur-Rahman! Do not seek to be a ruler, for if you are given authority on your demand then you will be held responsible for it, but if you are given it without asking (for it), then you will be helped (by Allah) in it.
If you ever take an oath to do something and later on you find that something else is better, then you should expiate your oath and do what is better."
Hadith - 11
Narrated `Abdur-Rahman bin Samura: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "O `Abdur-Rahman bin Samura! Do not seek to be a ruler, for if you are given authority on your demand, you will be held responsible for it, but if you are given it without asking for it, then you will be helped (by Allah) in it.
If you ever take an oath to do something and later on you find that something else is better, then do what is better and make expiation for your oath."
Hadith - 12
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "You people will be keen to have the authority of ruling which will be a thing of regret for you on the Day of Resurrection. What an excellent wet nurse it is, yet what a bad weaning one it is."
Hadith - 13
Narrated Abu Musa: Two men from my tribe and I entered upon the Prophet. One of the two men said to the Prophet, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Appoint me as a governor," and so did the second.
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "We do not assign the authority of ruling to those who ask for it, nor to those who are keen to have it."
Hadith - 14
Narrated Ma'qil: I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "Any man whom Allah has given the authority of ruling some people and he does not look after them in an honest manner, will never feel even the smell of Paradise."
Hadith - 15
Narrated Ma'qil: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If any ruler having the authority to rule Muslim subjects dies while he is deceiving them, Allah will forbid Paradise for him."
Hadith - 16
Narrated Tarif Abi Tamima: I saw Safwan and Jundab and Safwan's companions when Jundab was advising. They said, "Did you hear something from Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)?"
Jundab said, "I heard him saying, 'Whoever does a good deed in order to show off, Allah will expose his intentions on the Day of Resurrection (before the people), and whoever puts the people into difficulties, Allah will put him into difficulties on the Day of Resurrection.'"
The people said (to Jundab), "Advise us." He said, "The first thing of the human body to purify is the abdomen, so he who can eat nothing but good food (Halal and earned lawfully) should do so, and he who does as much as he can that nothing intervene between him and Paradise by not shedding even a handful of blood, (i.e. murdering) should do so."
Hadith - 17
Narrated Anas bin Malik: While the Prophet (ﷺ) and I were coming out of the mosque, a man met us outside the gate. The man said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! When will be the Hour?" The Prophet (ﷺ) asked him, "What have you prepared for it?"
The man became afraid and ashamed and then said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! I haven't prepared for it much of fasts, prayers or charitable gifts, but I love Allah and His Apostle." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "You will be with the one whom you love."
Hadith - 18
Narrated Thabit Al-Bunani: Anas bin Malik said to a woman of his family, "Do you know such-and-such a woman?" She replied, "Yes."
He said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) passed by her while she was weeping over a grave, and he said to her, 'Be afraid of Allah and be patient.' The woman said (to the Prophet), 'Go away from me, for you do not know my calamity.'"
Anas added, "The Prophet (ﷺ) left her and proceeded. A man passed by her and asked her, 'What has Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said to you?' She replied, 'I did not recognize him.' The man said, 'He was Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)."'
Anas added, "So that woman came to the gate of the Prophet (ﷺ) and she did not find a gate-keeper there, and she said, 'O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! By Allah, I did not recognize you!' The Prophet said, 'No doubt, patience is at the first stroke of a calamity.'"
Hadith - 19
Narrated Anas: Qais bin Sa`d was to the Prophet (ﷺ) like a chief police officer to an Amir (chief).
Hadith - 20
Narrated Abu Musa: That the Prophet (ﷺ) sent him and sent Mu`adh after him (as rulers to Yemen).
Hadith - 21
Narrated Abu Musa: A man embraced Islam and then reverted back to Judaism. Mu`adh bin Jabal came and saw the man with Abu Musa. Mu`adh asked, "What is wrong with this (man)?" Abu Musa replied, "He embraced Islam and then reverted back to Judaism."
Mu`adh said, "I will not sit down unless you kill him (as it is) the verdict of Allah and His Apostle."
Hadith - 22
Narrated `Abdur Rahman bin Abi Bakra: Abu Bakra wrote to his son who was in Sijistan: 'Do not judge between two persons when you are angry, for I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "A judge should not judge between two persons while he is in an angry mood."'
Hadith - 23
Narrated Abu Mas`ud Al-Ansari: A man came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! By Allah, I fail to attend the morning congregational prayer because so-and-so (i.e., Mu`adh bin Jabal) prolongs the prayer when he leads us for it."
I had never seen the Prophet (ﷺ) more furious in giving advice than he was on that day. He then said, "O people! Some of you make others dislike (good deeds, i.e. prayers etc).
So whoever among you leads the people in prayer, he should shorten it, because among them there are the old, the weak and the busy (needy having some jobs to do)."
Hadith - 24
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar: That he had divorced his wife during her menses. `Umar mentioned that to the Prophet.
Allah's Apostle became angry and said, "He must take her back (his wife) and keep her with him till she becomes clean from her menses, and then to wait till she gets her next period and becomes clean again from it, and only then if he wants to divorce her, he may do so."
Hadith - 25
Narrated `Aisha: Hind bint `Utba bin Rabi`a came and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! By Allah, there was no family on the surface of the earth I liked to see in degradation more than I did your family, but today there is no family on the surface of the earth whom I like to see honored more than yours."
Hind added, "Abu Sufyan is a miser. Is it sinful of me to feed our children from his property?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "There is no blame on you if you feed them (thereof) in a just and reasonable manner."
Hadith - 26
Narrated Anas bin Malik: When the Prophet (ﷺ) intended to write to the Byzantines, the people said, "They do not read a letter unless it is sealed (stamped)."
Therefore the Prophet (ﷺ) took a silver ring - as if I am looking at its glitter now - and its engraving was: "Muhammad, Apostle of Allah."
Hadith - 27
Narrated 'Abdullah bin As-Sa'di: That when he went to 'Umar during his Caliphate. 'Umar said to him, "Haven't I been told that you do certain jobs for the people but when you are given payment you refuse to take it?" 'Abdullah added: I said, "Yes."
'Umar said, "Why do you do so?" I said, "I have horses and slaves and I am living in prosperity and I wish that my payment should be kept as a charitable gift for the Muslims."
'Umar said, "Do not do so, for I intended to do the same as you do. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to give me gifts and I used to say to him, 'Give it to a more needy one than me.'
Once he gave me some money and I said, 'Give it to a more needy person than me,' whereupon the Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'Take it and keep it in your possession and then give it in charity.
Take whatever comes to you of this money if you are not keen to have it and not asking for it; otherwise (i.e., if it does not come to you) do not seek to have it yourself.'"
Hadith - 28
Narrated 'Abdullah bin 'Umar: I have heard 'Umar saying, "The Prophet (ﷺ) used to give me some money (grant) and I would say (to him), 'Give it to a more needy one than me.'
Once he gave me some money and I said, 'Give it to a more needy one than me.' The Prophet (ﷺ) said (to me), 'Take it and keep it in your possession and then give it in charity. 
Take whatever comes to you of this money while you are not keen to have it and not asking for it, take it, but you should not seek to have what you are not given.'"
Hadith - 29
Narrated Sahl bin Sa`d: I witnessed a husband and a wife who were involved in a case of Lian. Then (the judgment of) divorce was passed. I was fifteen years of age at that time.
Hadith - 30
Narrated Sahl (the brother of Bani Sa`ida): A man from the Ansar came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said, "If a man finds another man sleeping with his wife, should he kill him?" That man and his wife then did Lian in the mosque while I was present.
Hadith - 31
Narrated Abu Huraira: A man came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) while he was in the mosque, and called him, saying, "O Allah's Apostle! I have committed illegal sexual intercourse."
The Prophet (ﷺ) turned his face to the other side, but when the man gave four witnesses against himself, the Prophet (ﷺ) said to him, "Are you mad?" The man said, "No." So the Prophet (ﷺ) said (to his companions), "Take him away and stone him to death."
Hadith - 32
(continued from above) Narrated Jabir bin Abdullah: I was one of those who stoned him at the Musalla in Al-Madina.
Hadith - 33
Narrated Um Salama: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "I am only a human being, and you people (opponents) come to me with your cases; and it may be that one of you can present his case eloquently in a more convincing way than the other, and I give my verdict according to what I hear.
So if ever I judge (by error) and give the right of a brother to his other (brother) then he (the latter) should not take it, for I am giving him only a piece of Fire."
Hadith - 34
Narrated Abu Qatada: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said on the Day of (the battle of) Hunain, "Whoever has killed an infidel and has a proof or a witness for it, then the salb (arms and belongings of that deceased) will be for him."
I stood up to seek a witness to testify that I had killed an infidel but I could not find any witness and then sat down.
Then I thought that I should mention the case to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (and when I did so) a man from those who were sitting with him said, "The arms of the killed person he has mentioned are with me, so please satisfy him on my behalf."
Abu Bakr said, "No, he will not give the arms to a bird of Quraish and deprive one of Allah's lions of it who fights for the cause of Allah and His Apostle."
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) stood up and gave it to me, and I bought a garden with its price, and that was my first property which I owned through the war booty.
The people of Hijaz said, "A judge should not pass a judgment according to his knowledge, whether he was a witness at the time he was the judge or before that."
And if a litigant gives a confession in favor of his opponent in the court, in the opinion of some scholars, the judge should not pass a judgment against him till the latter calls two witnesses to witness his confession.
And some people of Iraq said, "A judge can pass a judgement according to what he hears or witnesses (the litigant's confession) in the court itself, but if the confession takes place outside the court, he should not pass the judgment unless two witnesses witness the confession."
Some of them said, "A judge can pass a judgement depending on his knowledge of the case as he is trustworthy, and that a witness is required just to reveal the truth. The judge's knowledge is more than the witness."
Some said, "A judge can judge according to his knowledge only in cases involving property, but in other cases he cannot."
Al-Qasim said, "A judge ought not to pass a judgment depending on his knowledge if other people do not know what he knows, although his knowledge is more than the witness of somebody else, because he might expose himself to suspicion by the Muslims and cause the Muslims to have unreasonable doubt."
Hadith - 35
Narrated `Ali bin Husain: Safiya bint (daughter of) Huyai came to the Prophet (in the mosque), and when she returned (home), the Prophet (ﷺ) accompanied her. It happened that two men from the Ansar passed by them and the Prophet called them saying, "She is Safiya!"
Those two men said, "Subhan Allah!" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Satan circulates in the human body as blood does."
Hadith - 36
Narrated Abu Burda: The Prophet (ﷺ) sent my father and Mu`adh bin Jabal to Yemen and said (to them), "Make things easy for the people and do not put hurdles in their way, and give them glad tidings, and don't let them have aversion (i.e. to make people to hate good deeds) and you both should work in cooperation and mutual understanding."
Abu Musa said to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), "In our country a special alcoholic drink called Al-Bit' is prepared (for drinking)." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Every intoxicant is prohibited."
Hadith - 37
Narrated Abu Musa: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Set free the captives and accept invitations."
Hadith - 38
Narrated Abu Humaid Al-Sa`idi: The Prophet (ﷺ) appointed a man from the tribe of Bani Asad, called Ibn Al-Utabiyya to collect the Zakat. When he returned (with the money) he said (to the Prophet), "This is for you and this has been given to me as a gift."
The Prophet (ﷺ) stood up on the pulpit (Sufyan said he ascended the pulpit), and after glorifying and praising Allah, he said, "What is wrong with the employee whom we send (to collect Zakat from the public) that he returns to say, 'This is for you and that is for me?'
Why didn't he stay at his father's and mother's house to see whether he will be given gifts or not?
By Him in Whose Hand my life is, whoever takes anything illegally will bring it on the Day of Resurrection by carrying it over his neck: if it is a camel, it will be grunting, if it is a cow, it will be mooing, and if it is a sheep it will be bleating!"
The Prophet (ﷺ) then raised both his hands till we saw the whiteness of his armpits (and he said), "No doubt! Haven't I conveyed Allah's Message?" And he repeated it three times.
Hadith - 39
Narrated Ibn `Umar: Salim, the freed slave of Abu Hudhaifa, used to lead in prayer the early Muhajirin (emigrants) and the companions of the Prophet (ﷺ) in the Quba mosque. Among those (who used to pray behind him) were Abu Bakr, `Umar, Abu Salama, and Amir bin Rabi`a.
Hadith - 40
Narrated `Urwa bin Az-Zubair: Marwan bin Al-Hakam and Al-Miswar bin Makhrama told him that when the Muslims were permitted to set free the captives of Hawazin, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "I do not know who amongst you has agreed (to it) and who has not. Go back so that your 'Urafa' may submit your decision to us."
So the people returned and their 'Urafa' talked to them and then came back to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and told him that the people had given their consent happily and permitted (their captives to be freed).