Hadith - 1
Narrated Ibn 'Abbas: The Prophet (ﷺ) sent Mu'adh to Yemen.
Hadith - 2
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: When the Prophet (ﷺ) sent Mu`adh to Yemen, he said to him, "You are going to a nation from the people of the Scripture, so let the first thing to which you will invite them be the Tauhid of Allah.
If they learn that, tell them that Allah has enjoined on them five prayers to be offered in one day and one night.
And if they pray, tell them that Allah has enjoined on them Zakat of their properties and it is to be taken from the rich among them and given to the poor. And if they agree to that, then take from them Zakat but avoid the best property of the people."
Hadith - 3
Narrated Mu`adh bin Jabal: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O Mu`adh! Do you know what Allah's Right upon His slaves is?" I said, "Allah and His Apostle know best."
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "To worship Him (Allah) alone and to join none in worship with Him (Allah). Do you know what their right upon Him is?" I replied, "Allah and His Apostle know best." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Not to punish them (if they do so)."
Hadith - 4
Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri: A man heard another man reciting (in the prayers): 'Say (O Muhammad): He is Allah, the One.' (Surah 112: Ayah 1) And he recited it repeatedly.
When it was morning, he went to the Prophet (ﷺ) and informed him about that as if he considered that the recitation of that Sura by itself was not enough. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "By Him in Whose Hand my life is, it is equal to one-third of the Qur'an."
Hadith - 5
Narrated `Aisha: The Prophet (ﷺ) sent (an army unit) under the command of a man who used to lead his companions in the prayers and would finish his recitation with (the Sura 112): 'Say (O Muhammad): "He is Allah, the One."' (Surah 112: Ayah 1)
When they returned (from the battle), they mentioned that to the Prophet (ﷺ). He said (to them), "Ask him why he does so."
They asked him and he said, "I do so because it mentions the qualities of the Beneficent and I love to recite it (in my prayer)." The Prophet (ﷺ) said (to them), "Tell him that Allah loves him."
Hadith - 6
Narrated Jarir bin `Abdullah: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Allah will not be merciful to those who are not merciful to mankind."
Hadith - 7
Narrated Usama bin Zaid: We were with the Prophet (ﷺ) when suddenly there came to him a messenger from one of his daughters who was asking him to come and see her son who was dying.
The Prophet (ﷺ) said (to the messenger), "Go back and tell her that whatever Allah takes is His, and whatever He gives is His, and everything with Him has a limited fixed term (in this world). So order her to be patient and hope for Allah's reward."
But she sent the messenger to the Prophet (ﷺ) again, swearing that he should come to her. So the Prophet got up, and so did Sa`d bin 'Ubada and Mu`adh bin Jabal (and went to her).
When the child was brought to the Prophet (ﷺ) his breath was disturbed in his chest as if it were in a water skin. On that, the eyes of the Prophet (ﷺ) became flooded with tears, whereupon Sa`d said to him, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! What is this?"
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "This is mercy which Allah has put in the heart of His slaves, and Allah bestows His mercy only on those of His slaves who are merciful (to others)."
Hadith - 8
Narrated Abu Musa Al-Ash`ari: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "None is more patient than Allah against the harmful and annoying words He hears (from the people): They ascribe children to Him, yet He bestows upon them health and provision."
Hadith - 9
Narrated Ibn `Umar: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The keys of the unseen are five and none knows them but Allah:
(1) None knows (the sex) what is in the womb, but Allah
(2) None knows what will happen tomorrow, but Allah
(3) None knows when it will rain, but Allah
(4) None knows where he will die, but Allah (knows that)
(5) and none knows when the Hour will be established, but Allah.
Hadith - 10
Narrated Masruq: `Aisha said, "If anyone tells you that Muhammad has seen his Lord, he is a liar, for Allah says: 'No vision can grasp Him.' (Surah 6: Ayah 103)
And if anyone tells you that Muhammad has seen the Unseen, he is a liar, for Allah says: 'None has the knowledge of the Unseen but Allah.'"
Hadith - 11
Narrated `Abdullah: We used to pray behind the Prophet (ﷺ) and used to say: "As-Salamu 'Al-Allah."
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Allah himself is As-Salam (Name of Allah), so you should say (what means): All compliments, prayers and pure words are due to Allah. Peace be upon you, O Prophet, and the mercy of Allah and His blessings.
Peace be upon us and upon the righteous slaves of Allah. I bear witness that none has the right to be worshipped except Allah, and I bear witness that Muhammad is His slave and Messenger."
Hadith - 12
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "On the Day of Resurrection, Allah will hold the whole earth and fold the heaven with His right hand and say, 'I am the King, where are the kings of the earth?'"
Hadith - 13
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: The Prophet (ﷺ) used to say, "I seek refuge (with You) by Your 'Izzat, None has the right to be worshipped but You Who does not die, while the Jinns and the human beings die."
Hadith - 14
Narrated Anas: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The people will be thrown into Hell (Fire) and it will keep on saying, 'Is there any more?' till the Lord of the worlds puts His Foot over it, whereupon its different sides will come close to each other, and it will say, 'Qad! Qad! (enough! enough!) By Your 'Izzat (Honor and Power) and Your Karam (Generosity)!'
Paradise will remain spacious enough to accommodate more people until Allah will create some more people and let them dwell in the superfluous space of Paradise."
Hadith - 15
Narrated Ibn 'Abbas: The Prophet (ﷺ) used to invoke Allah at night, saying, "O Allah, All the Praises are for You, You are the Lord of the Heavens and the Earth. All the Praises are for You, You are the Maintainer of the Heaven and the Earth and whatever is in them.
All the Praises are for You, You are the Light of the Heavens and the Earth. Your Word is the Truth, and Your Promise is the Truth, and the Meeting with You is the Truth, and Paradise is the Truth, and the (Hell) Fire is the Truth, and the Hour is the Truth.
O Allah! I surrender myself to You, and I believe in You and I depend upon You, and I repent to You, and with You (Your evidences) I stand against my opponents, and to You I leave the judgment (for those who refuse my message).
O Allah! Forgive me my sins that I did in the past or will do in the future, and also the sins I did in secret or in public. You are my only God (Whom I worship) and there is no other God for me (i.e. I worship none but You)."
Narrated Sufyan: (regarding the above narration) that the Prophet (ﷺ) added, "You are the Truth, and Your Word is the Truth."
Hadith - 16
Narrated Abu Musa: We were with the Prophet (ﷺ) on a journey, and whenever we ascended a high place, we used to say, "Allahu Akbar."
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Don't trouble yourselves too much! You are not calling a deaf or an absent person, but you are calling One Who Hears, Sees, and is very near."
Then he came to me while I was saying in my heart, "There is neither might nor power but with Allah." He said to me, "O `Abdullah bin Qais! Say, 'There is neither might nor power but with Allah,' for it is one of the treasures of Paradise." Or said, "Shall I tell you of it?"
Hadith - 17
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Amr: Abu Bakr As-Siddiq said to the Prophet (ﷺ), "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Teach me an invocation with which I may invoke Allah in my prayers."
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Say: O Allah! I have wronged my soul very much (oppressed myself), and none forgives the sins but You; so please bestow Your Forgiveness upon me. No doubt, You are the Oft-Forgiving, Most Merciful."
Hadith - 18
Narrated `Aisha: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Gabriel called me and said, 'Allah has heard the statement of your people and what they replied to you.'"
Hadith - 19
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah As-Salami: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to teach his companions to perform the prayer of Istikhara for each and every matter just as he used to teach them the Suras from the Qur'an.
He used to say, "If anyone of you intends to do some thing, he should offer a two rak`at prayer other than the compulsory prayers, and after finishing it, he should say: O Allah! I consult You, for You have all knowledge, and appeal to You to support me with Your Power and ask for Your Bounty, for You are able to do things while I am not, and You know while I do not; and You are the Knower of the Unseen.
O Allah! If You know that this matter (name your matter) is good for me both at present and in the future, (or in my religion), in my this life and in the Hereafter, then fulfill it for me and make it easy for me, and then bestow Your Blessings on me in that matter.
O Allah! If You know that this matter is not good for me in my religion, in my this life and in my coming Hereafter (or at present or in the future), then divert me from it and choose for me what is good wherever it may be, and make me be pleased with it."
Hadith - 20
Narrated `Abdullah: The Prophet (ﷺ) frequently used to swear, "No, by the One Who turns the hearts."
Hadith - 21
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Allah has ninety-nine Names, one-hundred less one; and he who memorized them all by heart will enter Paradise." To count something means to know it by heart.
Hadith - 22
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "When anyone of you goes to bed, he should dust it off thrice with the edge of his garment, and say: With Your Name, my Rabb, I place my side (upon the bed) and with Your Grace I will raise it up.
If You withhold my soul (cause me to die), have mercy on it, but if You let it go (let me live), guard it against which You guarded Your pious slaves."
Hadith - 23
Narrated Hudhaifah: When the Prophet (ﷺ) went to bed, he used to say, "With Your name, O Allah, I die and I live." And when he woke up in the mornings he used to say, "All the Praises are for Allah Who has made us alive after He made us die (sleep) and unto Him is the Resurrection."
Hadith - 24
Narrated Abu Dharr: When the Prophet (ﷺ) went to bed at night, he used to say: "With Your name, O Allah, I die and I live." And when he got up in the morning, he used to say, "All the Praises are for Allah Who has made us alive after He made us die (sleep) and unto Him is the Resurrection."
Hadith - 25
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If anyone of you, when intending to have a sexual relation (sleep) with his wife, says (what means): 'In the name of Allah. O Allah! Protect us from Satan and prevent Satan from approaching our offspring you are going to give us,' Satan would never harm that child, should it be ordained that they will have one (because of that sleep)."
Hadith - 26
Narrated `Adi bin Hatim: I asked the Prophet (ﷺ), "I send off (for a game) my trained hunting dogs; (what is your verdict concerning the game they hunt)?"
He said, "If you send off your trained hunting dogs and mention the Name of Allah, then, if they catch some game, eat (thereof). And if you hit the game with a mi'rad (a hunting tool) and it wounds it, you can eat (it)."
Hadith - 27
Narrated `Aisha: The people said to the Prophet (ﷺ), "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Here are people who have recently embraced Islam and they bring meat, and we do not know whether they had mentioned Allah's Name while slaughtering the animals or not."
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "You should mention Allah's Name and eat."
Hadith - 28
Narrated Anas: The Prophet (ﷺ) slaughtered two rams as sacrifice and mentioned Allah's Name and said, "Allahu-Akbar" while slaughtering.
Hadith - 29
Narrated Jundab: That he witnessed the Prophet (ﷺ) on the Day of Nahr. The Prophet (ﷺ) offered prayer and then delivered a sermon saying, "Whoever slaughtered his sacrifice before offering prayer should slaughter another animal in place of the first; and whoever has not yet slaughtered any, should slaughter a sacrifice and mention Allah's Name while doing so."
Hadith - 30
Narrated Ibn `Umar: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Do not swear by your fathers; and whoever wants to swear should swear by Allah."
Hadith - 31
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) sent ten persons to bring the enemy's secrets and Khubaib Al-Ansari was one of them.
'Ubaidullah bin 'Iyad told me that the daughter of Al-Harith told him that when they gathered (to kill Khubaib Al-Ansari) he asked for a razor to clean his pubic region, and when they had taken him outside the sanctuary of Mecca in order to kill him, he said in verse, "I don't care if I am killed as a Muslim, on any side (of my body) I may be killed in Allah's Cause; for that is for the sake of Allah's very Self; and if He wills, He will bestow His Blessings upon the torn pieces of my body."
Then Ibn Al-Harith killed him, and the Prophet (ﷺ) informed his companions of the death of those (ten men) on the very day they were killed.
Hadith - 32
Narrated `Abdullah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "There is none having a greater sense of Ghira than Allah, and for that reason He has forbidden shameful deeds and sins (illegal sexual intercourse etc).
And there is none who likes to be praised more than Allah does."
Hadith - 33
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "When Allah created the Creation, He wrote in His Book - and He wrote (that) about Himself, and it is placed with Him on the Throne - 'Verily My Mercy overcomes My Anger.'"
Hadith - 34
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Allah says: 'I am just as My slave thinks I am, (i.e. I am able to do for him what he thinks I can do for him) and I am with him if He remembers Me.
If he remembers Me in himself, I too, remember him in Myself; and if he remembers Me in a group of people, I remember him in a group that is better than they; and if he comes one span nearer to Me, I go one cubit nearer to him; and if he comes one cubit nearer to Me, I go a distance of two outstretched arms nearer to him; and if he comes to Me walking, I go to him running.'"
Hadith - 35
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah: When this Verse: 'Say (O Muhammad!): He has Power to send torments on you from above,' (Surah 6: Ayah 65) was revealed; the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I take refuge with Your Face."
Allah revealed: '...or from underneath your feet,' (Surah 6: Ayah 65) The Prophet (ﷺ) then said, "I seek refuge with Your Face!"
Then Allah revealed: '...or confuse you in party-strife' (Surah 6: Ayah 65). On that, the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "This is easier."
Hadith - 36
Narrated `Abdullah: Ad-Dajjal was mentioned in the presence of the Prophet. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Allah is not hidden from you; He is not one-eyed," and pointed with his hand towards his eye, adding, "While Al-Masih Ad-Dajjal is blind in the right eye and his eye looks like a protruding grape."
Hadith - 37
Narrated Anas: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Allah did not send any prophet but that he warned his nation of the one-eyed liar (Ad-Dajjal). He is one-eyed while your Lord is not one-eyed, The word "Kafir" (unbeliever) is written between his two eyes."
Hadith - 38
Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri: That during the battle with Bani Al-Mustaliq, they (Muslims) captured some females and intended to have sexual relation with them without impregnating them. So they asked the Prophet (ﷺ) about coitus interruptus.
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "It is better that you should not do it, for Allah has written whom He is going to create till the Day of Resurrection."
Qaza'a said, "I heard Abu Sa`id saying that the Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'No soul is ordained to be created but Allah will create it.'"
Hadith - 39
Narrated Anas: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Allah will gather the believers on the Day of Resurrection in the same way (as they are gathered in this life), and they will say, 'Let us ask someone to intercede for us with our Lord that He may relieve us from this place of ours.'
Then they will go to Adam and say, 'O Adam! Don't you see the people (people's condition)? Allah created you with His Own Hands and ordered His angels to prostrate before you, and taught you the names of all the things. Please intercede for us with our Lord so that He may relieve us from this place of ours.'
Adam will say, 'I am not fit for this undertaking,' and mention to them the mistakes he had committed, and add, 'But you would better go to Noah as he was the first Apostle sent by Allah to the people of the Earth.'
They will go to Noah, who will reply, 'I am not fit for this undertaking,' and mention the mistake which he made, and add, 'But you would better go to Abraham, Khalil Ar-Rahman.'
They will go to Abraham who will reply, 'I am not fit for this undertaking,' and mention to them the mistakes he made, and add, 'But you would better go to Moses, a slave whom Allah gave the Torah and to whom He spoke directly.'
They will go to Moses who will reply, 'I am not fit for this undertaking,' and mention to them the mistakes he made, and add, 'You would better go to Jesus, Allah's slave and His Apostle and His Word (Be: And it was) and a soul created by Him.'
They will go to Jesus who will say, 'I am not fit for this undertaking, but you would better go to Muhammad whose sins of the past and the future had been forgiven (by Allah).'
So they will come to me and I will ask the permission of my Lord, and I will be permitted (to present myself) before Him.
When I see my Lord, I will fall down in (prostration) before Him and He will leave me (in prostration) as long as He wishes, and then it will be said to me, 'O Muhammad! Raise your head and speak, for you will be listened to; and ask, for you will be granted (your request); and intercede, for your intercession will be accepted.'
I will then raise my head and praise my Lord with certain praises which He has taught me, and then I will intercede. Allah will allow me to intercede (for a certain kind of people) and will fix a limit whom I will admit into Paradise.
I will come back again, and when I see my Lord (again), I will fall down in prostration before Him, and He will leave me (in prostration) as long as He wishes, and then He will say, 'O Muhammad! Raise your head and speak, for you will be listened to; and ask, for you will be granted (your request); and intercede, for your intercession will be accepted.'
I will then praise my Lord with certain praises which He has taught me, and then I will intercede. Allah will allow me to intercede (for a certain kind of people) and will fix a limit to whom I will admit into Paradise.
I will return again, and when I see my Lord, I will fall down (in prostration) and He will leave me (in prostration) as long as He wishes, and then He will say, 'O Muhammad! Raise your head and speak, for you will be listened to, and ask, for you will be granted (your request); and intercede, for your intercession will be accepted.'
I will then praise my Lord with certain praises which He has taught me, and then I will intercede. Allah will allow me to intercede (for a certain kind of people) and will fix a limit to whom I will admit into Paradise.
I will come back and say, 'O my Lord! None remains in Hell (Fire) but those whom Qur'an has imprisoned therein and for whom eternity in Hell (Fire) has become inevitable.'"
The Prophet (ﷺ) added, 'There will come out of Hell (Fire) everyone who says: "La ilaha illallah," and has in his heart good equal to the weight of a barley grain.
Then there will come out of Hell (Fire) everyone who says: "La ilaha illallah," and has in his heart good equal to the weight of a wheat grain.
Then there will come out of Hell (Fire) everyone who says: "La ilaha illallah," and has in his heart good equal to the weight of an atom (or a smallest ant).'"
Hadith - 40
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Allah's Hand is full, and (its fullness) is not affected by the continuous spending, day and night."
He also said, "Do you see what He has spent since He created the Heavens and the Earth? Yet all that has not decreased what is in His Hand."
He also said, "His Throne is over the water and in His other Hand is the balance (of Justice) and He raises and lowers (whomever He wills)."
Hadith - 41
Narrated Ibn `Umar: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "On the Day of Resurrection, Allah will grasp the whole Earth by His Hand, and all the Heavens in His right, and then He will say, 'I am the King.'"
Abu Huraira said, 'Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Allah will grasp the Earth."'
Hadith - 42
Narrated `Abdullah: A Jew came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said, "O Muhammad! Allah will hold the heavens on a Finger, and the mountains on a Finger, and the trees on a Finger, and all the creation on a Finger, and then He will say, 'I am the King.'"
On that, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) smiled till his premolar teeth became visible, and then recited: 'No just estimate have they made of Allah such as due to Him...' (Surah 39: Ayah 67)
`Abdullah added: Allah's Apostle smiled (at the Jew's statement) expressing his wonder and belief in what was said.
Hadith - 43
Narrated `Abdullah: A man from the people of the scripture came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said, "O Abal-Qasim! Allah will hold the Heavens upon a Finger, and the Earth on a Finger, and the land on a Finger, and all the creation on a Finger, and will say, 'I am the King! I am the King!'"
I saw the Prophet (after hearing that), smiling till his premolar teeth became visible, and he then recited: 'No just estimate have they made of Allah such as due to Him.' (Surah 39: Ayah 67)
Hadith - 44
Narrated Al-Mughira: Sa`d bin 'Ubada said, "If I saw a man with my wife, I would strike him (behead him) with the blade of my sword."
This news reached Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) who then said, "You people are astonished at Sa`d's Ghira. By Allah, I have more Ghira than he, and Allah has more Ghira than I, and because of Allah's Ghira, He has made unlawful shameful deeds and sins (illegal sexual intercourse etc) done in open and in secret.
And there is none who likes that the people should repent to Him and beg His pardon than Allah, and for this reason He sent the warners and the givers of good news.
And there is none who likes to be praised more than Allah does, and for this reason, Allah promised to grant Paradise (to the doers of good)."
`Abdul-Malik said, "No person has more Ghira than Allah."
Hadith - 45
Narrated Sahl bin Sa`d: The Prophet (ﷺ) said to a man, "Have you got anything of the Qur'an?" The man said, "Yes, such-and-such Surah, and such-and-such Surah," naming the Suras.
Hadith - 46
Narrated `Imran bin Husain: While I was with the Prophet (ﷺ), some people from Bani Tamim came to him. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O Bani Tamim! Accept the good news!" They said, "You have given us the good news; now give us (something)."
(After a while) some Yemenites entered, and he said to them, "O the people of Yemen! Accept the good news, as Bani Tamim have refused it." They said, "We accept it, for we have come to you to learn the Religion. So we ask you what the beginning of this universe was."
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "There was Allah and nothing else before Him, and His Throne was over the water, and He then created the Heavens and the Earth and wrote everything in the Book."
Then a man came to me and said, "O `Imran! Follow your she-camel for it has run away!" So I set out seeking it, and behold, it was beyond the mirage! By Allah, I wished that it (my she-camel) had gone but that I had not left (the gathering).
Hadith - 47
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The Right (Hand) of Allah is full, and (Its fullness) is not affected by the continuous spending night and day. Do you see what He has spent since He created the Heavens and the Earth? Yet all that has not decreased what is in His Right Hand.
His Throne is over the water and in His other Hand is the Bounty or the Power to bring about death, and He raises some people and brings others down."
Hadith - 48
Narrated Anas: Zaid bin Haritha came to the Prophet (ﷺ) complaining about his wife. The Prophet (ﷺ) kept on saying (to him), "Be afraid of Allah and keep your wife."
Aisha said, "If Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) were to conceal anything (of the Qur'an), he would have concealed this Verse."
Zainab used to boast before the wives of the Prophet (ﷺ) and used to say, "You were given in marriage by your families, while I was married (to the Prophet) by Allah from over seven Heavens."
And Thabit recited, "The Verse: 'But (O Muhammad) you did hide in your heart that which Allah was about to make manifest, you did fear the people,' (Surah 33: Ayah 37) was revealed in connection with Zainab and Zaid bin Haritha."
Hadith - 49
Narrated Anas bin Malik: The Verse of Al-Hijab (veiling of women) was revealed in connection with Zainab bint Jahsh.
(On the day of her marriage with him) the Prophet (ﷺ) gave a wedding banquet with bread and meat; and she used to boast before other wives of the Prophet (ﷺ) and used to say, "Allah married me (to the Prophet (ﷺ)) in the Heavens."
Hadith - 50
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "When Allah had finished His creation, He wrote over His Throne: 'My Mercy preceded My Anger.'"
Hadith - 51
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Whoever believes in Allah and His Apostle, offers prayers perfectly and fasts (the month of) Ramadan, then it is incumbent upon Allah to admit him into Paradise, whether he emigrates for Allah's cause or stays in the land where he was born."
They (the companions of the Prophet) said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Should we not inform the people of that?"
He said, "There are one-hundred degrees in Paradise which Allah has prepared for those who carry on Jihad in His Cause.
The distance between every two degrees is like the distance between the sky and the Earth, so if you ask Allah for anything, ask Him for the Firdaus, for it is the last part of Paradise and the highest part of Paradise, and at its top there is the Throne of Beneficent, and from it gush forth the rivers of Paradise."
Hadith - 52
Narrated Abu Dharr: I entered the mosque while Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was sitting there. When the sun had set, the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O Abu Dharr! Do you know where this (sun) goes?" I said, "Allah and His Apostle know best."
He said, "It goes and asks permission to prostrate, and it is allowed, and (one day) it, as if being ordered to return whence it came, then it will rise from the west." Then the Prophet (ﷺ) recited, "That: "And the sun runs on its fixed course (for a term decreed)," (Surah 36: Ayah 38) as it is recited by `Abdullah.
Hadith - 53
Narrated Zaid bin Thabit: Abu Bakr sent for me, so I collected the Qur'an till I found the last part of Surat-at-Tauba with Abi Khuza`ima Al-Ansari and did not find it with anybody else.
(The Verses are): 'Verily, there has come to you an Apostle (Muhammad) from amongst yourselves...(till the end of Surat Bara'a) (i.e., at-Tauba).' (Surah 9: Ayat 128-129).
Yunus also narrated as above.
Hadith - 54
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: The Prophet (ﷺ) used to say at the time of difficulty (what means), 'None has the right to be worshipped but Allah, the All-Knowing, the Most Forbearing. None has the right to be worshipped but Allah, the Lord of the Tremendous Throne. None has the right to be worshipped but Allah, the Lord of the Heavens and the Lord of the Honourable Throne.'
Hadith - 55
Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The people will fall unconscious on the Day of Resurrection, then suddenly I will see Moses holding one of the pillars of the Throne."
Abu Huraira said: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I will be the first person to be resurrected and will see Moses holding the Throne."
Hadith - 56
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "(A group of) angels stay with you at night and (another group of) angels by daytime, and both groups gather at the time of the 'Asr and Fajr prayers.
Then those angels who have stayed with you overnight, ascend (to Heaven) and Allah asks them (about you) - and He knows everything about you - 'In what state did you leave My slaves?' The angels reply, 'When we left them, they were praying, and when we reached them they were praying.'"
Hadith - 57
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If somebody gives in charity something equal to a date from his honestly earned money - for nothing ascends to Allah except good - then Allah will take it in His Right (Hand) and bring it up for its owner as anyone of you brings up a baby horse, till it becomes like a mountain."
Abu Huraira said: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Nothing ascends to Allah except good."
Hadith - 58
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to say at the time of difficulty, "None has the right to be worshipped but Allah, the Majestic, the Most Forbearing. None has the right to be worshipped but Allah, the Lord of the Tremendous Throne. None has the right to be worshipped but Allah, the Lord of the Heavens and the Lord of the Honourable Throne."
Hadith - 59
Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri: When `Ali was in Yemen, he sent some gold in its ore to the Prophet. The Prophet (ﷺ) distributed it among Al-Aqra' bin Habis Al-Hanzali who belonged to Bani Mujashi, 'Uyaina bin Badr Al-Fazari, 'Alqama bin 'Ulatha Al-`Amiri, who belonged to the Bani Kilab tribe and Zaid Al-Khail at-Ta'i who belonged to Bani Nabhan.
So the Quraish and the Ansar became angry and said, "He gives to the chiefs of Najd and leaves us!" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I just wanted to attract and unite their hearts (make them firm in Islam)."
Then there came a man with sunken eyes, bulging forehead, thick beard, fat raised cheeks, and clean-shaven head, and said, "O Muhammad! Be afraid of Allah!"
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Who would obey Allah if I disobeyed Him (Allah)? He trusts me over the people of the earth, but you do not trust me?"
A man from the people (present then), who I think was Khalid bin Al-Walid, asked for permission to kill him, but the Prophet (ﷺ) prevented him.
When the man went away, the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Out of the offspring of this man, there will be people who will recite the Qur'an but it will not go beyond their throats, and they will go out of Islam as an arrow goes out through the game, and they will kill the Muslims and leave the idolators.
Should I live till they appear, I would kill them as the killing of the nation of 'Ad."
Hadith - 60
Narrated Abu Dharr: I asked the Prophet (ﷺ) regarding the Verse: 'And the sun runs on its fixed course for a term decreed for it' (Surah 36: Ayah 28). He said, "Its fixed course is underneath Allah's Throne."
Hadith - 61
Narrated Jarir: We were sitting with the Prophet (ﷺ) and he looked at the moon on the night of the full-moon and said, "You people will see your Lord as you see this full moon, and you will have no trouble in seeing Him, so if you can avoid missing (through sleep or business, etc) a prayer before sunrise (Fajr) and a prayer before sunset (`Asr) you must do so."
Hadith - 62
Narrated Jarir bin `Abdullah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "You will definitely see your Lord with your own eyes."
Hadith - 63
Narrated Jarir: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) came out to us on the night of the full moon and said, "You will see your Lord on the Day of Resurrection as you see this (full moon) and you will have no difficulty in seeing Him."
Hadith - 64
Narrated 'Ata' bin Yazid Al-Laithi: On the authority of Abu Huraira: The people said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Shall we see our Lord on the Day of Resurrection?"
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Do you have any difficulty in seeing the moon on a full moon night?" They said, "No, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)."
He said, "Do you have any difficulty in seeing the sun when there are no clouds?" They said, "No, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)."
He said, "So you will see Him like that. Allah will gather all the people on the Day of Resurrection, and say, 'Whoever worshipped something (in the world) should follow (that thing),' so, whoever worshipped the sun will follow the sun, and whoever worshiped the moon will follow the moon, and whoever used to worship certain (other false) deities, he will follow those deities.
And there will remain only this nation with its good people (or its hypocrites). (The sub-narrator, Ibrahim is in doubt.)
Allah will come to them and say, 'I am your Lord.' They will (deny Him and) say, 'We will stay here till our Lord comes, for when our Lord comes, we will recognize Him.'
So Allah will come to them in His appearance which they know, and will say, 'I am your Lord.' They will say, 'You are our Lord,' so they will follow Him.
Then a bridge will be laid across Hell (Fire). I and my followers will be the first ones to go across it and none will speak on that Day except the Apostles. And the invocation of the Apostles on that Day will be, 'O Allah, save! Save!'
In Hell (or over The Bridge) there will be hooks like the thorns of As-Sa'dan (thorny plant). Have you seen As-Sa'dan? " They replied, "Yes, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)!"
He said, "So those hooks look like the thorns of As-Sa'dan, but none knows how big they are except Allah. Those hooks will snap the people away according to their deeds. Some of the people will stay in Hell (be destroyed) because of their (evil) deeds, and some will be cut or torn by the hooks (and fall into Hell) and some will be punished and then relieved.
When Allah has finished His Judgments among the people, He will take whomever He will out of Hell through His Mercy. He will then order the angels to take out of the Fire all those who used to worship none but Allah from among those whom Allah wanted to be merciful to and those who testified (in the world) that none has the right to be worshipped but Allah.
The angels will recognize them in the Fire by the marks of prostration (on their foreheads), for the Fire will eat up all the human body except the mark caused by prostration, as Allah has forbidden the Fire to eat the mark of prostration.
They will come out of the (Hell) Fire completely burnt, and then the water of life will be poured over them and they will grow under it as does a seed that comes in the mud of the torrent.
Then Allah will finish the judgments among the people, and there will remain one man facing the (Hell) Fire and he will be the last person among the people of Hell to enter Paradise.
He will say, 'O my Lord! Please turn my face away from the fire because its air has hurt me and its severe heat has burnt me.' So he will invoke Allah in the way Allah will wish him to invoke, and then Allah will say to him, 'If I grant you that, will you then ask for anything else?'
He will reply, 'No, by Your Power, (Honor) I will not ask You for anything else.' He will give his Lord whatever promises and covenants Allah will demand. So Allah will turn his face away from Hell (Fire).
When he will face Paradise and will see it, he will remain quiet for as long as Allah will wish him to remain quiet, then he will say, 'O my Lord! Bring me near to the gate of Paradise.'
Allah will say to him, 'Didn't you give your promises and covenants that you would never ask for anything more than what you had been given? Woe on you, O Adam's son! How treacherous you are!'
He will say, 'O my Lord,' and will keep on invoking Allah till He says to him, 'If I give what you are asking, will you then ask for anything else?'
He will reply, 'No, by Your (Honor) Power, I will not ask for anything else.' Then he will give covenants and promises to Allah and then Allah will bring him near to the gate of Paradise.
When he stands at the gate of Paradise, Paradise will be opened and spread before him, and he will see its splendor and pleasures, whereupon he will remain quiet as long as Allah will wish him to remain quiet, and then he will say, 'O my Lord! Admit me into Paradise.'
Allah will say, 'Didn't you give your covenants and promises that you would not ask for anything more than what you had been given?' Allah will say, 'Woe on you, O Adam's son! How treacherous you are!'
The man will say, 'O my Lord! Do not make me the most miserable of Your creation,' and he will keep on invoking Allah till Allah will laugh because of his sayings, and when Allah will laugh because of him, He will say to him, 'Enter Paradise,' and when he will enter it, Allah will say to him, 'Wish for anything.'
So he will ask his Lord, and he will wish for a great number of things, for Allah Himself will remind him to wish for certain things by saying, '(Wish for) so-and-so.'
When there is nothing more to wish for, Allah will say, 'This is for you, and its equal (is for you) as well.'"
'Ata' bin Yazid added: Abu Sa'id Al-Khudri, who was present with Abu Huraira, did not deny whatever the latter said, but when Abu Huraira said that Allah had said, "That is for you and its equal as well," Abu Sa'id Al-Khudri said, "And ten times as much, O Abu Huraira!"
Abu Huraira said, "I do not remember, except his saying, 'That is for you and its equal as well.'"
Abu Sa'id Al-Khudri then said, "I testify that I remember the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, 'That is for you, and ten times as much.'" Abu Huraira then added, "That man will be the last person of the people of Paradise to enter Paradise."
Hadith - 65
Narrated Abu Sa'id Al-Khudri: We said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Shall we see our Lord on the Day of Resurrection?" He said, "Do you have any difficulty in seeing the sun and the moon when the sky is clear?" We said, "No."
He said, "So you will have no difficulty in seeing your Lord on that Day as you have no difficulty in seeing the sun and the moon (in a clear sky)."
The Prophet (ﷺ) then said, "Somebody will then announce, 'Let every nation follow what they used to worship.' So the companions of the cross will go with their cross, and the idolators (will go) with their idols, and the companions of every god (false deities) (will go) with their god, till there remain those who used to worship Allah, both the obedient ones and the mischievous ones, and some of the people of the Scripture.
Then Hell will be presented to them as if it were a mirage. Then it will be said to the Jews, 'What did you use to worship?' They will reply, 'We used to worship Ezra, the son of Allah.'
It will be said to them, 'You are liars, for Allah has neither a wife nor a son. What do you want (now)?' They will reply, 'We want You to provide us with water.' Then it will be said to them 'Drink,' and they will fall down in Hell (instead).
Then it will be said to the Christians, 'What did you use to worship?' They will reply, 'We used to worship Messiah, the son of Allah.' It will be said, 'You are liars, for Allah has neither a wife nor a son. What do you want (now)?'
They will say, 'We want You to provide us with water.' It will be said to them, 'Drink,' and they will fall down in Hell (instead).
When there remain only those who used to worship Allah (Alone), both the obedient ones and the mischievous ones, it will be said to them, 'What keeps you here when all the people have gone?'
They will say, 'We parted with them (in the world) when we were in greater need of them than we are today, we heard the call of one proclaiming, 'Let every nation follow what they used to worship,' and now we are waiting for our Lord.'
Then the Almighty will come to them in a shape other than the one which they saw the first time, and He will say, 'I am your Lord,' and they will say, 'You are not our Lord.'
And none will speak to Him then but the Prophets, and then it will be said to them, 'Do you know any sign by which you can recognize Him?'
They will say, 'The Shin,' and so Allah will then uncover His Shin whereupon every believer will prostrate before Him and there will remain those who used to prostrate before Him just for showing off and for gaining good reputation. These people will try to prostrate but their backs will be rigid like one piece of a wood (and they will not be able to prostrate). Then the bridge will be laid across Hell."
We, the companions of the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! What is the bridge?" He said, "It is a slippery (bridge) on which there are clamps and (Hooks like) a thorny seed that is wide at one side and narrow at the other and has thorns with bent ends. Such a thorny seed is found in Najd and is called As-Sa'dan.
Some of the believers will cross the bridge as quickly as the wink of an eye, some others as quick as lightning, a strong wind, fast horses or she-camels.
So some will be safe without any harm; some will be safe after receiving some scratches, and some will fall down into Hell (Fire). The last person will cross by being dragged (over the bridge)."
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "You (Muslims) cannot be more pressing in claiming from me a right that has been clearly proved to be yours than the believers in interceding with Almighty for their (Muslim) brothers on that Day, when they see themselves safe.
They will say, 'O Allah! (Save) our brothers (for they) used to pray with us, fast with us and also do good deeds with us.' Allah will say, 'Go and take out (of Hell) anyone in whose heart you find faith equal to the weight of one (gold) Dinar.'
Allah will forbid the Fire to burn the faces of those sinners. They will go to them and find some of them in Hell (Fire) up to their feet, and some up to the middle of their legs.
So they will take out those whom they will recognize and then they will return, and Allah will say (to them), 'Go and take out (of Hell) anyone in whose heart you find faith equal to the weight of one half Dinar.'
They will take out whomever they will recognize and return, and then Allah will say, 'Go and take out (of Hell) anyone in whose heart you find faith equal to the weight of an atom (or a smallest ant),' and so they will take out all those whom they will recognize."
Abu Sa'id said: If you do not believe me then read the Holy Verse: 'Surely! Allah wrongs not even of the weight of an atom (or a smallest ant) but if there is any good (done) He doubles it.' (Surah 4: Ayah 40)
The Prophet (ﷺ) added, "Then the prophets and Angels and the believers will intercede, and (last of all) the Almighty (Allah) will say, 'Now remains My Intercession.'
He will then hold a handful of the Fire from which He will take out some people whose bodies have been burnt, and they will be thrown into a river at the entrance of Paradise, called the water of life.
They will grow on its banks, as a seed carried by the torrent grows. You have noticed how it grows beside a rock or beside a tree, and how the side facing the sun is usually green while the side facing the shade is white.
Those people will come out (of the River of Life) like pearls, and they will have (golden) necklaces, and then they will enter Paradise whereupon the people of Paradise will say, 'These are the people emancipated by the Beneficent. He has admitted them into Paradise without them having done any good deeds and without sending forth any good (for themselves).'
Then it will be said to them, 'For you is what you have seen and its equivalent as well.'"
Hadith - 66
Narrated Anas: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The believers will be kept (waiting) on the Day of Resurrection so long that they will become worried and say, "Let us ask somebody to intercede for us with our Lord so that He may relieve us from our place."
Then they will go to Adam and say, 'You are Adam, the father of the people. Allah created you with His Own Hand and made you reside in His Paradise and ordered His angels to prostrate before you, and taught you the names of all things. Will you intercede for us with your Lord so that He may relieve us from this place of ours?'
Adam will say, 'I am not fit for this undertaking.' He will mention his mistakes he had committed, i.e., his eating off the tree though he had been forbidden to do so. He will add, 'Go to Noah, the first prophet sent by Allah to the people of the Earth.'
The people will go to Noah who will say, 'I am not fit for this undertaking.' He will mention his mistake which he had done, i.e., his asking his Lord without knowledge.' He will say (to them), 'Go to Abraham, Khalil Ar-Rahman.'
They will go to Abraham who will say, 'I am not fit for this undertaking.' He would mention three words by which he told a lie, and say (to them), 'Go to Moses, a slave whom Allah gave the Torah and spoke to directly and brought near Him for conversation.'
They will go to Moses who will say, 'I am not fit for this undertaking.' He will mention his mistake he made, i.e., killing a person, and will say (to them), 'Go to Jesus, Allah's slave and His Apostle, and a soul created by Him and His Word.' (Be: And it was.)
They will go to Jesus who will say, 'I am not fit for this undertaking but you would better go to Muhammad, the slave whose past and future sins have been forgiven by Allah.'
So they will come to me, and I will ask my Lord's permission to enter His House and then I will be permitted.
When I see Him I will fall down in prostration before Him, and He will leave me (in prostration) as long as He wills, and then He will say, 'O Muhammad, lift up your head and speak, for you will be listened to, and intercede, for your intercession will be accepted, and ask (for anything) for it will be granted.'
Then I will raise my head and glorify my Lord with certain praises which He has taught me. Allah will put a limit for me (to intercede for a certain type of people), I will take them out and make them enter Paradise."
(Qatada said: I heard Anas saying that), the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I will go out and take them out of Hell (Fire) and let them enter Paradise, and then I will return and ask my Lord for permission to enter His House and I will be permitted.
When I will see Him I will fall down in prostration before Him and He will leave me in prostration as long as He will let me (in that state), and then He will say, 'O Muhammad, raise your head and speak, for you will be listened to, and intercede, for your intercession will be accepted, and ask, your request will be granted.'"
The Prophet (ﷺ) added, "So I will raise my head and glorify and praise Him as He has taught me. Then I will intercede and He will put a limit for me (to intercede for a certain type of people). I will take them out and let them enter Paradise."
(Qatada added: I heard Anas saying that) the Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'I will go out and take them out of Hell (Fire) and let them enter Paradise, and I will return for the third time and will ask my Lord for permission to enter His house, and I will be allowed to enter.
When I see Him, I will fall down in prostration before Him, and will remain in prostration as long as He wills, and then He will say, 'Raise your head, O Muhammad, and speak, for you will be listened to, and intercede, for your intercession will be accepted, and ask, for your request will be granted.'
So I will raise my head and praise Allah as He has taught me and then I will intercede and He will put a limit for me (to intercede for a certain type of people). I will take them out and let them enter Paradise."
(Qatada said: I heard Anas saying that) the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "So I will go out and take them out of Hell (Fire) and let them enter Paradise, till none will remain in the Fire except those whom Quran will imprison (i.e., those who are destined for eternal life in the fire)."
The narrator then recited the Verse: "It may be that your Lord will raise you to a Station of Praise and Glory" (Surah 17: Ayah 79). The narrator added: "This is the Station of Praise and Glory which Allah has promised to your Prophet (ﷺ)."
Hadith - 67
Narrated Anas bin Malik: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) sent for the Ansar and gathered them in a tent and said to them, "Be patient till you meet Allah and His Apostle, and I will be on the lake-Tank (Al-Kauthar)."
Hadith - 68
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: Whenever the Prophet (ﷺ) offered his Tahajjud prayer, he would say, "O Allah, our Lord! All the praises are for You; You are the Keeper (Establisher or the One Who looks after) of the Heavens and the Earth.
All the Praises are for You; You are the Light of the Heavens and the Earth and whatever is therein. You are the Truth, and Your saying is the Truth, and Your promise is the Truth, and the meeting with You is the Truth, and Paradise is the Truth, and the (Hell) Fire is the Truth.
O Allah! I surrender myself to You, and believe in You, and I put my trust in You (solely depend upon). And to You I complain of my opponents and with Your Evidence I argue.
So please forgive the sins which I have done in the past or I will do in the future, and also those (sins) which I did in secret or in public, and that which You know better than I. None has the right to be worshipped but You."
Hadith - 69
Narrated `Adi bin Hatim: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "There will be none among you but his Lord will speak to him, and there will be no interpreter between them nor a screen to screen Him."
Hadith - 70
Narrated `Abdullah bin Qais: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "(There will be) two Paradises of silver and all the utensils and whatever is therein (will be of silver); and two Paradises of gold, and its utensils and whatever therein (will be of gold), and there will be nothing to prevent the people from seeing their Lord except the Cover of Majesty over His Face in the Paradise of Eden (eternal bliss)."
Hadith - 71
Narrated `Abdullah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Whoever takes the property of a Muslim by taking a false oath, will meet Allah Who will be angry with him."
Then the Prophet (ﷺ) recited the Verse: 'Verily those who purchase a small gain at the cost of Allah's Covenant and their oaths, they shall have no portion in the Hereafter, neither will Allah speak to them, nor look at them.' (Surah 3: Ayah 77)
Hadith - 72
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "(There are) three (types of persons to whom) Allah will neither speak to them on the Day of Resurrection, nor look at them. (They are):
(1) a man who takes a false oath that he has been offered for a commodity a price greater than what he has actually been offered;
(2) and a man who takes a false oath after the `Asr (prayer) in order to grab the property of a Muslim through it;
(3) and a man who forbids others to use the remaining superfluous water. To such a man Allah will say on the Day of Resurrection, 'Today I withhold My Blessings from you as you withheld the superfluous part of that (water) which your hands did not create.'"
Hadith - 73
Narrated Abu Bakra: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Time has come back to its original state which it had when Allah created the Heavens and the Earth, the year is twelve months, of which four are sacred; (and out of these four) three are in succession, namely, Dhul-Qa'da, Dhul-Hijja and Muharram, and (the fourth one) Rajab Mudar which is between Jumad (Ath-Thani) and Sha'ban."
The Prophet (ﷺ) then asked us, "Which month is this?" We said, "Allah and His Apostle know (it) better." He kept quiet so long that we thought he might call it by another name. Then he said, "Isn't it Dhul-Hijja?" We said, "Yes."
He asked, "What town is this?" We said, "Allah and His Apostle know (it) better.' Then he kept quiet so long that we thought he might call it by another name. He then said, "Isn't it the (forbidden) town (Mecca)?" We said, "Yes."
He asked, "What is the day today?" We said, "Allah and His Apostle know (it) better." Then he kept quiet so long that we thought that he might call it by another name. Then he said, "Isn't it the Day of An-Nahr (slaughtering of sacrifices)?" We said, "Yes."
Then he said, "Your blood (lives), your properties," (the sub narrator Muhammad, said: I think he also said: "...and your honor) are as sacred to one another like the sanctity of this Day of yours, in this town of yours, in this month of yours.
You shall meet your Lord and He will ask you about your deeds. Beware! Don't go astray after me by striking the necks of one another.
Lo! It is incumbent upon those who are present to inform it to those who are absent, for perhaps the informed one might comprehend it (understand it) better than some of the present audience."
Whenever the sub-narrator Muhammad mentioned that statement, he would say, "The Prophet (ﷺ) said the truth."
And then the Prophet (ﷺ) added, "No doubt! Haven't I conveyed Allah's Message to you! No doubt! Haven't I conveyed Allah's Message to you?"
Hadith - 74
Narrated Usama: A son of one of the daughters of the Prophet (ﷺ) was dying, so she sent a person to call the Prophet. He sent (her a message), "Whatever Allah takes is for Him, and whatever He gives is for Him, and everything has a limited fixed term (in this world) so she should be patient and hope for Allah's reward."
She then sent for him again, swearing that he should come. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) got up, and so did Mu`adh bin Jabal, Ubai bin Ka`b and 'Ubada bin As-Samit.
When he entered (the house), they gave the child to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) while its breath was disturbed in his chest. (The sub-narrator said: I think he said, "...as if it was a water skin.")
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) started weeping whereupon Sa`d bin 'Ubada said, "Do you weep?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Allah is merciful only to those of His slaves who are merciful (to others)."
Hadith - 75
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Paradise and Hell (Fire) quarrelled in the presence of their Lord. Paradise said, 'O Lord! What is wrong with me that only the poor and humble people enter me?' Hell (Fire) said, 'I have been favored with the arrogant people.'
So Allah said to Paradise, 'You are My Mercy,' and said to Hell, 'You are My Punishment which I inflict upon whom I wish, and I shall fill both of you.'"
The Prophet added, "As for Paradise, (it will be filled with good people) because Allah does not wrong any of His created things, and He creates for Hell (Fire) whomever He wills, and they will be thrown into it, and it will say thrice, 'Is there any more', till Allah (will put) His Foot over it and it will become full and its sides will come close to each other and it will say, 'Qat! Qat! Qat! (Enough! Enough! Enough)."
Hadith - 76
Narrated Anas: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Some people will be scorched by Hell (Fire) as a punishment for sins they have committed, and then Allah will admit them into Paradise by the grant of His Mercy. These people will be called Al-Jahannamiyyin (the people of Hell)."
Hadith - 77
Narrated `Abdullah: A Jewish Rabbi came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and said, "O Muhammad! Allah will put the Heavens on one finger and the earth on one finger, and the trees and the rivers on one finger, and the rest of the creation on one finger, and then will say, pointing out with His Hand, 'I am the King.'"
On that, Allah's Apostle smiled and said, "No just estimate have they made of Allah such as due to Him." (Surah 39: Ayah 67)
Hadith - 78
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: Once I stayed overnight at the house of (my aunt) Maimuna while the Prophet (ﷺ) was with her, to see how was the night prayer of Allah's Apostle. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) talked to his wife for a while and then slept.
When it was the last third of the night (or part of it), the Prophet (ﷺ) got up and looked towards the sky and recited the Verse: 'Verily! In the creation of the Heavens and the Earth...there are indeed signs for the men of understanding.' (Surah 3: Ayah 190)
Then he got up and performed the ablution, brushed his teeth and offered eleven rak`at. Then Bilal pronounced the Adhan, whereupon the Prophet (ﷺ) offered a two-rak`at (Sunna) prayer and went out to lead the people in Fajr (morning compulsory congregational prayer).
Hadith - 79
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "When Allah created the creations, He wrote with Him on His Throne: 'My Mercy has preceded My Anger.'"
Hadith - 80
Narrated `Abdullah bin Mas`ud: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), the true and truly inspired, narrated to us, "The creation of everyone of you starts with the process of collecting the material for his body within forty days and forty nights in the womb of his mother.
Then he becomes a clot of thick blood for a similar period (40 days) and then he becomes like a piece of flesh for a similar period.
Then an angel is sent to him (by Allah) and the angel is allowed (ordered) to write four things; his livelihood, his (date of) death, his deeds, and whether he will be a wretched one or a blessed one (in the Hereafter) and then the soul is breathed into him.
So one of you may do (good) deeds characteristic of the people of Paradise so much that there is nothing except a cubit between him and Paradise, but then what has been written for him decides his behavior and he starts doing (evil) deeds characteristic of the people of Hell (Fire) and (ultimately) enters Hell (Fire)
And one of you may do (evil) deeds characteristic of the people of Hell (Fire) so much so that there is nothing except a cubit between him and Hell (Fire), then what has been written for him decides his behavior and he starts doing (good) deeds characteristic of the people of Paradise and (ultimately) enters Paradise."
Hadith - 81
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O Gabriel, what prevents you from visiting us more often than you do?" Then this Verse was revealed: 'And we angels descend not but by Command of your Lord. To Him belongs what is before us and what is behind us..' (Surah 19: Ayah 64). So this was the answer to Muhammad (ﷺ).
Hadith - 82
Narrated `Abdullah: While I was walking with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) in one of the fields of Medina and he was walking leaning on a stick, he passed a group of Jews. Some of them said to the others, "Ask him (the Prophet) about the spirit." Others said, "Do not ask him."
But they asked him and he stood leaning on the stick and I was standing behind him and I thought that he was being divinely inspired.
Then he said, "They ask you concerning the spirit. Say: The spirit, its knowledge is with My Lord. And of knowledge you (O men!) have been given only a little..." (Surah 17: Ayah 85)
On that, some of the Jews said to the others, "Didn't we tell you not to ask?"
Hadith - 83
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Allah guarantees to the person who carries out Jihad for His Cause and nothing compelled him to go out but the Jihad in His Cause, and belief in His Words, that He will either admit him into Paradise or return him with his reward or the booty he has earned to his residence from where he went out."
Hadith - 84
Narrated Abu Musa: A man came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said, "A man fights for pride and haughtiness, another fights for bravery, and another fights for showing off; which of these (cases) is in Allah's Cause?"
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The one who fights that Allah's Word (Islam) should be superior, fights in Allah's Cause."
Hadith - 85
Narrated Al-Mughira bin Shu`ba: I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "Some people from my followers will continue to be victorious over others till Allah's Order (The Hour) is established."
Hadith - 86
Narrated Muawiya: I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "A group of my followers will keep on following Allah's Laws strictly and they will not be harmed by those who will disbelieve them or stand against them till Allah's Order (The Hour) will come while they will be in that state."
Hadith - 87
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: The Prophet (ﷺ) stood before Musailama (the liar) who was sitting with his companions then, and said to him, "If you ask me for this piece (of palm-leaf stalk), even then I would not give it to you. You cannot avoid what Allah has ordained for you, and if you turn away from Islam, Allah will surely ruin you."
Hadith - 88
Narrated Ibn Mas`ud: While I was walking in company with the Prophet (ﷺ) in one of the fields of Medina, the Prophet (ﷺ) was reclining on a palm-leaf stalk which he carried with him. We passed by a group of Jews.
Some of them said to the others, "Ask him about the spirit." The others said, "Do not ask him, lest he would say something that you hate." Some of them said, "We will ask him."
So a man from among them stood up and said, "O Abal-Qasim! What is the spirit?" The Prophet (ﷺ) kept quiet and I knew that he was being divinely inspired.
Then he said: "They ask you concerning the Spirit, Say: The Spirit; its knowledge is with my Lord. And of knowledge you (mankind) have been given only a little." (Surah 17: Ayah 85)
Hadith - 89
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Allah guarantees (the person who carries out Jihad in His Cause and nothing compelled him to go out but Jihad in His Cause and the belief in His Word) that He will either admit him into Paradise (Martyrdom) or return him with reward or booty he has earned to his residence from where he went out."
Hadith - 90
Narrated Anas: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Whenever anyone of you invokes Allah for something, he should be firm in his asking, and he should not say: 'If You wish, give me...' for none can compel Allah to do something against His Will."
Hadith - 91
Narrated `Ali bin Abi Talib: That one night Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) visited him and Fatima, the daughter of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and said to them, "Won't you offer (night) prayer?"
`Ali added: I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Our souls are in the Hand of Allah and when He Wishes to bring us to life, He does." Then Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) went away when I said so and he did not give any reply.
Then I heard him on leaving while he was striking his thighs, saying, 'But man is, more quarrelsome than anything.' (Surah 18: Ayah 54)
Hadith - 92
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The example of a believer is that of a fresh green plant the leaves of which move in whatever direction the wind forces them to move and when the wind becomes still, it stands straight.
Such is the similitude of the believer: He is disturbed by calamities (but is like the fresh plant, he regains his normal state soon).
And the example of a disbeliever is that of a pine tree (which remains) hard and straight till Allah cuts it down when He wills."
Hadith - 93
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar: I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) while he was standing on the pulpit, saying, "The remaining period of your stay (on the earth) in comparison to the nations before you, is like the period between the `Asr prayer and sunset.
The people of the Torah were given the Torah and they acted upon it till midday, and then they were worn out and were given for their labor one Qirat each.
Then the people of the Gospel were given the Gospel and they acted upon it till the time of the `Asr prayer, and then they were worn out and were given (for their labor) one Qirat each.
Then you people were given the Qur'an and you acted upon it till sunset and so you were given two Qirats each (double the reward of the previous nations)."
Then the people of the Torah said, 'O our Lord! These people have done a little labor (much less than we) but have taken a greater reward.'
Allah said, 'Have I withheld anything from your reward?' They said, 'No.' Then Allah said, 'That is My Favor which I bestow on whom I wish.'"
Hadith - 94
Narrated 'Ubada bin As-Samit: I, along with a group of people, gave the pledge of allegiance to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). He said, "I take your Pledge on the condition that you (1) will not join partners in worship with Allah, (2) will not steal, (3) will not commit illegal sexual intercourse, (4) will not kill your offspring, (5) will not slander, (6) and will not disobey me when I order you to do good.
Whoever among you will abide by his pledge, his reward will be with Allah, and whoever commits any of those sins and receives the punishment in this world, that punishment will be an expiation for his sins and purification; but if Allah screens him, then it will be up to Allah to punish him if He wills, or excuse Him if He wills."
Hadith - 95
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Prophet Solomon who had sixty wives, once said, "Tonight I will have sexual relation (sleep) with all my wives so that each of them will become pregnant and bring forth (a boy who will grow into) a cavalier and will fight in Allah's Cause."
So he slept with his wives and none of them (conceived and) delivered (a child) except one who brought a half (body) boy (deformed).
Allah's Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If Solomon had said, 'If Allah Wills,' then each of those women would have delivered a (would-be) cavalier to fight in Allah's Cause."
Hadith - 96
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) entered upon a sick bedouin whom he went to visit and said to him, "Don't worry, Tahur (i.e., your illness will be a means of cleansing of your sins), if Allah Wills."
The bedouin said, "Tahur! No, but it is a fever that is burning in the body of an old man and it will make him visit his grave." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Then it is so."
Hadith - 97
Narrated Abu Qatada: When the people slept till so late that they did not offer the (morning) prayer, the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Allah captured your souls (made you sleep) when He willed, and returned them (to your bodies) when He willed."
So the people got up and went to answer the call of nature, performed ablution, till the sun had risen and it had become white, then the Prophet (ﷺ) got up and offered the prayer.
Hadith - 98
Narrated Abu Huraira: A man from the Muslims and a man from the Jews quarrelled, and the Muslim said, "By Him Who gave superiority to Muhammad over all the people!" The Jew said, "By Him Who gave superiority to Moses over all the people!"
On that, the Muslim lifted his hand and slapped the Jew. The Jew went to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and informed him of all that had happened between him and the Muslim.
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Do not give me superiority over Moses, for the people will fall unconscious on the Day of Resurrection, I will be the first to regain consciousness and behold, Moses will be standing there, holding the side of the Throne.
I will not know whether he has been one of those who have fallen unconscious and then regained consciousness before me, or if he has been one of those exempted by Allah (from falling unconscious)."
Hadith - 99
Narrated Anas bin Malik: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Ad-Dajjal will come to Medina and find the angels guarding it. If Allah wills, neither Ad-Dajjal nor plague will be able to come near it."
Hadith - 100
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "For every Prophet there is one invocation which is definitely fulfilled by Allah, and I wish, if Allah wills, to keep my that (special) invocation as to be the intercession for my followers on the Day of Resurrection."
Hadith - 101
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "While I was sleeping, I saw myself (in a dream) standing by a well. I drew from it as much water as Allah wished me to draw, and then Ibn Quhafa (Abu Bakr) took the bucket from me and drew one or two buckets, and there was weakness in his drawing - may Allah forgive him!
Then `Umar took the bucket which turned into something like a big drum. I had never seen a powerful man among the people working as perfectly and vigorously as he did. (He drew so much water that) the people drank to their satisfaction and watered their camels that knelt down there."
Hadith - 102
Narrated Abu Musa: Whenever a beggar or a person in need of something came to the Prophet (ﷺ), he used to say (to his companions), "Intercede (for him) and you will be rewarded for that, and Allah will fulfill what He wills through His Apostle's tongue."
Hadith - 103
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "None of you should say: 'O Allah! Forgive me if You wish,' or 'Bestow Your Mercy on me if You wish,' or 'Provide me with means of subsistence if You wish,' but he should be firm in his request, for Allah does what He wills and nobody can force Him (to do anything)."
Hadith - 104
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: That he differed with Al-Hurr bin Qais bin Hisn Al-Fazari about the companion of Moses, (i.e., whether he was Khadir or not).
Ubai bin Ka`b Al-Ansari passed by them and Ibn `Abbas called him saying, 'My friend (Hurr) and I have differed about Moses' Companion whom Moses asked the way to meet. Did you hear Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) mentioning anything about him?"
Ubai said, 'Yes, I heard Allah's Apostle saying, "While Moses was sitting in the company of some Israelites, a man came to him and asked, 'Do you know someone who is more learned than you (Moses)?' Moses said, 'No.' So Allah sent the Divine inspiration to Moses: 'Yes, Our Slave Khadir is more learned than you.'
Moses asked Allah how to meet him (Khadir). So Allah made the fish as a sign for him and it was said to him, 'When you lose the fish, go back (to the place where you lose it) and you will meet him.' So Moses went on looking for the sign of the fish in the sea.
The boy servant of Moses (who was accompanying him) said to him, 'Do you remember (what happened) when we betook ourselves to the rock? I did indeed forget to tell you (about) the fish. None but Satan made me forget to tell you about it.' (Surah 18: Ayah 63)
Moses said: 'That is what we have been seeking." So they went back retracing their footsteps. (Surah 18: Ayah 64). So they both found Khadir (there) and then happened what Allah mentioned about them (in the Qur'an).'
Hadith - 105
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If Allah wills, tomorrow we will encamp in Khaif Bani Kinana, the place where the pagans took the oath of Kufr (disbelief) against the Prophet." He meant Al-Muhassab.
Hadith - 106
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar: The Prophet (ﷺ) besieged the people of Ta'if, but he did not conquer it. He said, "Tomorrow, if Allah wills, we will return home." On this the Muslims said, "Then we return without conquering it?" He said, "Then carry on fighting tomorrow."
The next day many of them were injured. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If Allah wills, we will return home tomorrow." It seemed that statement pleased them, whereupon Allah's Apostle smiled.