Hadith - 107
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "When Allah ordains something on the Heaven, the angels beat with their wings in obedience to His Statement which sounds like that of a chain dragged over a rock.
His Statement: "Until when the fear is banished from their hearts, the Angels say, 'What was it that your Lord said?' They reply, '(He has said) the Truth.' And He is the Most High, The Great." (Surah 34: Ayah 23)
Hadith - 108
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Allah never listens to anything as He listens to the Prophet (ﷺ) reciting Qur'an in a pleasant sweet sounding voice." A companion of Abu Huraira said, "He means: reciting the Qur'an aloud."
Hadith - 109
Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Allah will say (on the Day of Resurrection), 'O Adam!' Adam will reply, 'Labbaik wa Sa`daik!' Then a loud voice will be heard (saying), 'Allah Commands you to take out the party of the Hell Fire from your offspring.'
Hadith - 110
Narrated `Aisha: I never felt so jealous of any woman as I felt of Khadija, for Allah ordered him (the Prophet (ﷺ)) to give Khadija the glad tidings of a palace in Paradise (for her).
Hadith - 111
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If Allah loves a person, He calls Gabriel, saying, 'Allah loves so-and-so. O Gabriel, love him.'
So Gabriel would love him and then would make an announcement in the Heavens: 'Allah has loved so-and-so, therefore you should love him also.' So all the dwellers of the Heavens would love him, and then he is granted the pleasure of the people on the earth."
Hadith - 112
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "There are angels coming to you in succession at night, and others during the day, and they all gather at the time of `Asr and Fajr prayers.
Then the angels who have stayed with you overnight ascend (to the heaven) and He (Allah) asks them, though He perfectly knows their affairs, 'In what state have you left my slaves?' They say, 'When we left them they were praying, and when we came to them they were praying.'"
Hadith - 113
Narrated Abu Dharr: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Gabriel came to me and gave me the glad tidings that anyone who died without worshipping anything besides Allah would enter Paradise.
I asked (Gabriel), 'Even if he committed theft, and even if he committed illegal sexual intercourse?' He said, '(Yes), even if he committed theft, and even if he committed illegal sexual intercourse.'"
Hadith - 114
Narrated Al-Bara' bin `Azib: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "O so-and-so, whenever you go to your bed (for sleeping) say, 'O Allah! I have surrendered myself over to You and have turned my face towards You, and leave all my affairs to You and depend on You and put my trust in You, expecting Your reward and fearing Your punishment.
There is neither fleeing from You nor refuge but with You. I believe in the Book (Qur'an) which You have revealed and in Your Prophet (Muhammad) whom You have sent.'
If you then die on that night, then you will die as a Muslim, and if you wake alive in the morning then you will receive the reward."
Hadith - 115
Narrated `Abdullah bin Abi `Aufa: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said on the Day of (the battle of) the Clans, "O Allah! The Revealer of the Holy Book, The Quick Taker of Accounts! Defeat the clans and shake them."
Hadith - 116
Narrated Ibn `Abbas (regarding the Verse): 'Neither say your prayer aloud, nor say it in a low tone,' (Surah 17: Ayah 110). This Verse was revealed while Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was hiding himself in Mecca, and when he raised his voice while reciting the Qur'an, the pagans would hear him and abuse the Qur'an and its Revealer and to the one who brought it.
So Allah said: 'Neither say your prayer aloud, nor say it in a low tone,' (Surah 17: Ayah 110). That is, 'Do not say your prayer so loudly that the pagans can hear you, nor say it in such a low tone that your companions do not hear you.'
But seek a middle course between those (extremes), i.e., let your companions hear, but do not relate the Qur'an loudly, so that they may learn it from you.
Hadith - 117
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Allah said: 'The son of Adam hurts Me by abusing Time, for I am Time; in My Hands are all things and I cause the revolution of night and day.'"
Hadith - 118
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Allah said: The Fast is for Me and I will give the reward for it, as he (the one who observes the fast) leaves his sexual desire, food and drink for My Sake.
Fasting is a screen (from Hell) and there are two pleasures for a fasting person, one at the time of breaking his fast, and the other at the time when he will meet his Lord.
And the smell of the mouth of a fasting person is better in Allah's Sight than the smell of musk."
Hadith - 119
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Once while Job (Aiyub) was taking a bath in a naked state, suddenly a great number of gold locusts started falling upon him and he started collecting them in his clothes.
His Lord called him, 'O Job! Didn't I make you rich enough to dispense with what you see now?' Job said, 'Yes, O Lord! But I cannot dispense with Your Blessings.'"
Hadith - 120
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Every night when it is the last third of the night, our Lord, the Superior, the Blessed, descends to the nearest heaven and says: Is there anyone to invoke Me that I may respond to his invocation? Is there anyone to ask Me so that I may grant him his request? Is there anyone asking My forgiveness so that I may forgive him?"
Hadith - 121
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "We (Muslims) are the last (to come) but will be the foremost on the Day of Resurrection." The narrators of this Hadith said: Allah said (to man), 'Spend (in charity), for then I will compensate you (generously).'"
Hadith - 122
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said that Gabriel said, "Here is Khadija coming to you with a dish of food or a tumbler containing something to drink. Convey to her a greeting from her Lord (Allah) and give her the glad tidings that she will have a palace in Paradise built of Qasab, wherein there will be neither any noise nor any fatigue (trouble)."
Hadith - 123
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Allah said, 'I have prepared for My righteous slaves (such excellent things) as no eye has ever seen, nor an ear has ever heard, nor a human heart can ever think of.'"
Hadith - 124
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: Whenever the Prophet (ﷺ) offered the night (Tahajjud) prayer, he used to say, "O Allah! All the Praises are for You; You are the Light of the Heavens and the Earth. And all the Praises are for You; You are the Keeper of the Heavens and the Earth.
All the Praises are for You; You are the Lord of the Heavens and the Earth and whatever is therein. You are the Truth, and Your Promise is the Truth, and Your Speech is the Truth, and meeting You is the Truth, and Paradise is the Truth, and Hell (Fire) is the Truth, and all the prophets are the Truth, and the Hour is the Truth.
O Allah! I surrender to You, and believe in You, and depend upon You, and repent to You, and in Your cause I fight, and with Your orders I rule.
So please forgive my past and future sins and those sins which I did in secret or in public. It is You Whom I worship, None has the right to be worshipped except You."
Hadith - 125
Narrated `Urwa bin Az-Zubair: Sa`id bin Al-Musaiyab, 'Alqama bin Waqqas and 'Ubaidullah bin `Abdullah regarding the narrating of the forged statement against `Aisha, the wife of the Prophet, when the slanderers said what they said and Allah revealed her innocence.
`Aisha said, "But by Allah, I did not think that Allah, (to confirm my innocence), would reveal Divine Inspiration which would be recited, for I consider myself too unimportant to be talked about by Allah through Divine Inspiration revealed for recitation, but I hoped that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) might have a dream in which Allah would reveal my innocence.
So Allah revealed: 'Verily! Those who spread the slander are a gang among you...' (The ten Verses in Surah an-Nur, Surah 24: Ayat 11-20).
Hadith - 126
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Allah says, 'If My slave intends to do a bad deed, then (O Angels) do not write it unless he does it; if he does it, then write it as it is, but if he refrains from doing it for My Sake, then write it as a good deed (in his account).
(On the other hand) if he intends to do a good deed, but does not do it, then write a good deed (in his account), and if he does it, then write it for him (in his account) as ten good deeds up to seven-hundred times.'"
Hadith - 127
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, 'Allah created the creation, and when He finished from His creation the Rahm (womb) got up, and Allah said (to it), "Stop! What do you want?"
It said, "At this place I seek refuge with You from all those who sever me (i.e. sever the ties of Kinship.)"
Allah said, "Would you be pleased that I will keep good relation with the one who will keep good relation with you, and I will sever the relation with the one who will sever the relation with you." It said: "Yes, O my Lord." Allah said (to it), "That is for you."'
And then Abu Huraira recited the Verse: "Would you then, if you were given the authority, do mischief in the land, and sever your ties of kinship?" (Surah 47: Ayah 22)
Hadith - 128
Narrated Zaid bin Khalid: It rained (because of the Prophet's invocation for rain) and the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Allah said, 'Some of My slaves have become disbelievers in Me, and some others believers in Me.'"
Hadith - 129
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Allah said, 'If My slaves loves the meeting with Me, I too love the meeting with him; and if he dislikes the meeting with Me, I too dislike the meeting with him.'"
Hadith - 130
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Allah said, 'I am to my slave as he thinks of Me, (i.e. I am able to do for him what he thinks I can do for him).'"
Hadith - 131
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "A man who never did any good deed said that if he died, his family should burn him and throw half the ashes of his burnt body in the earth and the other half in the sea, for by Allah, if Allah should get hold of him, He would inflict such punishment on him as He would not inflict on anybody among the people.
But Allah ordered the sea to collect what was in it (of his ashes) and similarly ordered the earth to collect what was in it (of his ashes).
Then Allah said (to the recreated man), 'Why did you do so?' The man replied, 'For being afraid of You, and You know it (very well).' So Allah forgave him."
Hadith - 132
Narrated Abu Huraira: I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "If somebody commits a sin and then says, 'O my Lord! I have sinned, please forgive me!' and his Lord says, 'My slave has known that he has a Lord who forgives sins and punishes for it, I therefore have forgiven my slave (his sins).'
Then he remains without committing any sin for a while and then again commits another sin and says, 'O my Lord, I have committed another sin, please forgive me,' and Allah says, 'My slave has known that he has a Lord who forgives sins and punishes for it, I therefore have forgiven my slave (his sin).'
Then he remains without committing any other sin for a while and then commits another sin (for the third time) and says, 'O my Lord, I have committed another sin, please forgive me,' and Allah says, 'My slave has known that he has a Lord Who forgives sins and punishes for it. I therefore have forgiven My slave (his sin), he can do whatever he likes.'"
Hadith - 133
Narrated Abu Sa`id: The Prophet (ﷺ) mentioned a man from the people of the past or those who preceded you. The Prophet (ﷺ) said a sentence meaning: Allah had given him wealth and children.
When his death approached, he said to his sons, "What kind of father have I been to you?" They replied, "You have been a good father." He told them that he had not presented any good deed before Allah, and if Allah should get hold of him He would punish him.'
"So look!" he added, "When I die, burn me, and when I turn into coal, crush me, and when there comes a windy day, scatter my ashes in the wind." The Prophet (ﷺ) added, "Then by Allah, he took a firm promise from his children to do so, and they did so. (They burnt him after his death) and threw his ashes on a windy day.
Then Allah commanded to his ashes, "Be," and behold! He became a man standing! Allah said, "O My slave! What made you do what you did?" He replied, "For fear of You." Nothing saved him then but Allah's Mercy (So Allah forgave him).
Hadith - 134
Narrated Anas: I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, 'On the Day of Resurrection, I will intercede and say, "O my Lord! Admit into Paradise (even) those who have faith equal to a mustard seed in their hearts."
Such people will enter Paradise, and then I will say, "O (Allah) admit into Paradise (even) those who have the least amount of faith in their hearts."'
Anas then said: As if I were just now looking at the fingers of Allah's Apostle.
Hadith - 135
Narrated Ma`bad bin Hilal Al-`Anazi: We, i.e., some people from Basra gathered and went to Anas bin Malik, and we went in company with Thabit Al-Bunani so that he might ask him about the Hadith of Intercession on our behalf.
Behold, Anas was in his palace, and our arrival coincided with his Duha prayer. We asked permission to enter and he admitted us while he was sitting on his bed.
We said to Thabit, "Do not ask him about anything else first but the Hadith of Intercession." He said, "O Abu Hamza! There are your brethren from Basra coming to ask you about the Hadith of Intercession."
Anas then said, "Muhammad talked to us saying, 'On the Day of Resurrection the people will surge with each other like waves, and then they will come to Adam and say, 'Please intercede for us with your Lord.' He will say, 'I am not fit for that, but you'd better go to Abraham as he is the Khalil of the Beneficent.'
They will go to Abraham and he will say, 'I am not fit for that, but you'd better go to Moses as he is the one to whom Allah spoke directly.'
So they will go to Moses and he will say, 'I am not fit for that, but you'd better go to Jesus as he is a soul created by Allah and His Word.' (Be: And it was)
They will go to Jesus and he will say, 'I am not fit for that, but you'd better go to Muhammad.'
They would come to me and I would say, 'I am for that.' Then I will ask for my Lord's permission, and it will be given, and then He will inspire me to praise Him with such praises as I do not know now. So I will praise Him with those praises and will fall down, prostrate before Him.
Then it will be said, 'O Muhammad, raise your head and speak, for you will be listened to; and ask, for you will be granted (your request); and intercede, for your intercession will be accepted.'
I will say, 'O Lord, my followers! My followers!' And then it will be said, 'Go and take out of Hell (Fire) all those who have faith in their hearts equal to the weight of a barley grain.'
I will go and do so, and return to praise Him with the same praises, and fall down (prostrate) before Him.
Then it will be said, 'O Muhammad, raise your head and speak, for you will be listened to; and ask, for you will be granted (your request); and intercede, for your intercession will be accepted.'
I will say, 'O Lord, my followers! My followers!' It will be said, 'Go and take out of it all those who have faith in their hearts equal to the weight of a small ant or a mustard seed.'
I will go and do so and return to praise Him with the same praises, and fall down in prostration before Him.
It will be said, 'O Muhammad, raise your head and speak, for you will be listened to; and ask, for you will be granted (your request); and intercede, for your intercession will be accepted.'
I will say, 'O Lord, my followers!' Then He will say, 'Go and take out (all those) in whose hearts there is faith even to the lightest, lightest mustard seed. (Take them) out of the Fire.' I will go and do so."'
When we left Anas, I said to some of my companions, "Let's pass by Al-Hasan who is hiding himself in the house of Abi Khalifa and request him to tell us what Anas bin Malik has told us."
So we went to him and we greeted him and he admitted us. We said to him, "O Abu Sa`id! We came to you from your brother Anas Bin Malik and he related to us a Hadith about the intercession the like of which I have never heard."
He said, "What is that?" Then we told him of the Hadith and said, "He stopped at this point (of the Hadith)." He said, "What then?" We said, "He did not add anything to that."
He said, "Anas related the Hadith to me twenty years ago when he was a young fellow. I don't know whether he forgot or if he did not like to let you depend on what he might have said." We said, "O Abu Sa`id! Let us know that."
He smiled and said, "Man was created hasty. I did not mention that, but that I wanted to inform you of it.
Anas told me the same as he told you and said that the Prophet (ﷺ) added, 'I will then return for a fourth time and praise Him similarly and prostrate before Him the same, as it will be said, 'O Muhammad, raise your head and speak, for you will be listened to; and ask, for you will be granted (your request); and intercede, for your intercession will be accepted.'
I will say, 'O Lord, allow me to intercede for whoever said, 'None has the right to be worshiped except Allah.' Then Allah will say, 'By My Power, and My Majesty, and by My Supremacy, and by My Greatness, I will take out of Hell (Fire) whoever said: 'None has the right to be worshipped except Allah.'"
Hadith - 136
Narrated `Abdullah: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The person who will be the last one to enter Paradise and the last to come out of Hell (Fire) will be a man who will come out crawling, and his Lord will say to him, 'Enter Paradise.' He will reply, 'O Lord, Paradise is full.'
Allah will give him the same order thrice, and each time the man will give Him the same reply, i.e., 'Paradise is full.' Thereupon Allah will say (to him), 'Ten times of the world is for you.'"
Hadith - 137
Narrated `Adi bin Hatim: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "There will be none among you but his Lord will talk to him, and there will be no interpreter between him and Allah.
He will look to his right and see nothing but his deeds which he has sent forward, and will look to his left and see nothing but his deeds which he has sent forward, and will look in front of him and see nothing but the (Hell) Fire facing him. So save yourself from the (Hell) Fire even with half a date (given in charity)."
Al-A`mash said: `Amr bin Murra said, Khaithama narrated the same and added, '...even with a good word.'
Hadith - 138
Narrated `Abdullah: A priest from the Jews came (to the Prophet) and said, "On the Day of Resurrection, Allah will place all the heavens on one finger, and the Earth on one finger, and the waters and the land on one finger, and all the creation on one finger, and then He will shake them and say, 'I am the King! I am the King!'"
I saw the Prophet (ﷺ) smiling till his premolar teeth became visible expressing his amazement and his belief in what he had said.
Then the Prophet (ﷺ) recited: 'No just estimate have they made of Allah such as due to Him ... (up to) ... High is He above the partners they attribute to Him.' (Surah 39: Ayah 67)
Hadith - 139
Narrated Safwan bin Muhriz: A man asked Ibn `Umar, "What have you heard from Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) regarding An-Najwa?"
He said, "Everyone of you will come close to His Lord Who will screen him from the people and say to him, 'Did you do so-and-so?' He will reply, 'Yes.' Then Allah will say, 'Did you do so-and-so?' He will reply, 'Yes.'
So Allah will question him and make him confess, and then Allah will say, 'I screened your sins in the world and forgive them for you today.'"
Hadith - 140
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Adam and Moses debated with each other and Moses said, 'You are Adam who turned out your offspring from Paradise.'
Adam said, 'You are Moses whom Allah chose for His Message and for His direct talk, yet you blame me for a matter which had been ordained for me even before my creation?' Thus Adam overcame Moses."
Hadith - 141
Narrated Anas: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The believers will be assembled on the Day of Resurrection and they will say, 'Let us look for someone to intercede for us with our Lord so that He may relieve us from this place of ours.'
So they will go to Adam and say, 'You are Adam, the father of mankind, and Allah created you with His Own Hands and ordered the Angels to prostrate before you, and He taught you the names of all things; so please intercede for us with our Lord so that He may relieve us.'
Adam will say to them, 'I am not fit for that,' and then he will mention to them his mistake which he has committed."
Hadith - 142
Narrated Anas bin Malik: The night Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was taken for a journey from the sacred mosque (of Mecca) Al-Ka`ba: Three persons came to him (in a dream) while he was sleeping in the Sacred Mosque before the Divine Inspiration was revealed to Him.
One of them said, "Which of them is he?" The middle (second) angel said, "He is the best of them." The last (third) angel said, "Take the best of them."
Only that much happened on that night and he did not see them till they came on another night, i.e. after The Divine Inspiration was revealed to him, and he saw them, his eyes were asleep but his heart was not - and so is the case with the prophets: their eyes sleep while their hearts do not sleep.
So those angels did not talk to him till they carried him and placed him beside the well of Zamzam. From among them, Gabriel took charge of him.
Gabriel cut open (the part of his body) between his throat and the middle of his chest (heart) and took all the material out of his chest and abdomen and then washed it with Zamzam water with his own hands till he cleansed the inside of his body, and then a gold tray containing a gold bowl full of belief and wisdom was brought, and then Gabriel stuffed his chest and throat blood vessels with it and then closed it (the chest).
He then ascended with him to the heaven of the world and knocked on one of its doors. The dwellers of the Heaven asked, 'Who is it?' He said, "Gabriel." They said, "Who is accompanying you?" He said, "Muhammad." They said, "Has he been called?" He said, "Yes."
They said, "He is welcomed." So the dwellers of the Heaven became pleased with his arrival, and they did not know what Allah would do to the Prophet (ﷺ) on earth unless Allah informed them.
The Prophet (ﷺ) met Adam over the nearest Heaven. Gabriel said to the Prophet, "He is your father; greet him." The Prophet (ﷺ) greeted him and Adam returned his greeting and said, "Welcome, O my Son! O what a good son you are!"
Behold, he saw two flowing rivers, while he was in the nearest sky. He asked, "What are these two rivers, O Gabriel?" Gabriel said, "These are the sources of the Nile and the Euphrates."
Then Gabriel took him around that Heaven and behold, he saw another river at the bank of which there was a palace built of pearls and emerald. He put his hand into the river and found its mud like musk.
He asked, "What is this, O Gabriel?" Gabriel said, "This is the Kauthar which your Lord has kept for you."
Then Gabriel ascended (with him) to the second Heaven and the angels asked the same questions as those on the first Heaven, i.e., "Who is it?" Gabriel replied, "Gabriel". They asked, "Who is accompanying you?" He said, "Muhammad." They asked, "Has he been sent for?" He said, "Yes." Then they said, "He is welcomed."
Then he (Gabriel) ascended with the Prophet (ﷺ) to the third Heaven, and the angels said the same as the angels of the first and the second Heavens had said.
Then he ascended with him to the fourth Heaven and they said the same; and then he ascended with him to the fifth Heaven and they said the same; and then he ascended with him to the sixth Heaven and they said the same; then he ascended with him to the seventh Heaven and they said the same.
On each Heaven there were prophets whose names he had mentioned, and of whom I remember Idris on the second Heaven, Aaron on the fourth Heaven, another prophet - whose name I don't remember - on the fifth Heaven, Abraham on the sixth Heaven, and Moses on the seventh Heaven because of his privilege of talking to Allah directly. Moses said (to Allah), "O Lord! I thought that none would be raised up above me."
But Gabriel ascended with him (the Prophet) for a distance above that, the distance of which only Allah knows, till he reached the Lote Tree (beyond which none may pass) and then the Irresistible, the Lord of Honor and Majesty approached and came closer till he (Gabriel) was about two bow lengths or (even) nearer. (It is said that it was Gabriel who approached and came closer to the Prophet.)
Among the things which Allah revealed to him then was: "Fifty prayers were enjoined on his followers in a day and a night." Then the Prophet (ﷺ) descended till he met Moses, and then Moses stopped him and asked, "O Muhammad! What did your Lord enjoin upon you?"
The Prophet (ﷺ) replied, "He enjoined upon me to perform fifty prayers in a day and a night." Moses said, "Your followers cannot do that. Go back so that your Lord may reduce it for you and for them."
So the Prophet (ﷺ) turned to Gabriel as if he wanted to consult him about that issue. Gabriel told him of his opinion, saying, "Yes, if you wish."
So Gabriel ascended with him to the Irresistible and said while he was in his place, "O Lord, please lighten our burden as my followers cannot do that."
So Allah deducted for him ten prayers where upon he returned to Moses who stopped him again and kept on sending him back to his Lord till the enjoined prayers were reduced to only five prayers.
Then Moses stopped him when the prayers had been reduced to five and said, "O Muhammad! By Allah, I tried to persuade my nation, Bani Israel, to do less than this, but they could not do it and gave it up. However, your followers are weaker in body, heart, sight and hearing, so return to your Lord so that He may lighten your burden."
The Prophet (ﷺ) turned towards Gabriel for advice and Gabriel did not disapprove of that. So he ascended with him for the fifth time. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O Lord, my followers are weak in their bodies, hearts, hearing and constitution, so lighten our burden."
On that the Irresistible said, "O Muhammad!" The Prophet replied, "Labbaik and Sa`daik." Allah said, "The Word that comes from Me does not change, so it will be as I enjoined on you in the Mother of the Book."
Allah added, "Every good deed will be rewarded as ten times, so it is fifty (prayers) in the Mother of the Book (in reward) but you are to perform only five (in practice)."
The Prophet (ﷺ) returned to Moses who asked, "What have you done?" He said, "He has lightened our burden: He has given us for every good deed a tenfold reward."
Moses said, "By Allah! I tried to make Bani Israel observe less than that, but they gave it up. So go back to your Lord that He may lighten your burden further." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "O Moses! By Allah, I feel shy of returning too many times to my Lord."
On that, Gabriel said, "Descend in Allah's Name." The Prophet (ﷺ) then woke while he was in the Sacred Mosque (at Mecca).
Hadith - 143
Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Allah will say to the people of Paradise, 'O the people of Paradise!' They will say, 'Labbaik, O our Lord, and Sa`daik, and all the good is in Your Hands!'
Allah will say, 'Are you satisfied?' They will say, 'Why shouldn't we be satisfied, O our Lord, as You have given us what You have not given to any of Your created beings?'
He will say, 'Shall I not give you something better than that?' They will say, 'O our Lord! What else could be better than that?' He will say, 'I bestow My Pleasure on you and will never be angry with you after that.'"
Hadith - 144
Narrated Abu Huraira: Once the Prophet (ﷺ) was preaching while a bedouin was sitting there.
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "A man from among the people of Paradise will request Allah to allow him to cultivate the land. Allah will say to him, 'Haven't you got whatever you desire?' He will reply, 'Yes, but I like to cultivate the land.'
(Allah will permit him and) he will sow the seeds, and within seconds the plants will grow and ripen and (the yield) will be harvested and piled in heaps like mountains.
On that, Allah will say (to him), 'Take, here you are, O son of Adam, for nothing satisfies you.'"
On that, the bedouin said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Such man must be either from Quraish or from Ansar, for they are farmers while we are not." On that, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) smiled.
Hadith - 145
Narrated `Abdullah: I asked Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), "What is the biggest sin in the sight of Allah?" He said, "To set up rivals unto Allah though He alone created you."
I said, "In fact, that is a tremendous sin," and added, "What next?" He said, "To kill your son being afraid that he may share your food with you."
I further asked, "What next?" He said, "To commit illegal sexual intercourse with the wife of your neighbor."
Hadith - 146
Narrated `Abdullah: Two person of Bani Thaqif and one from Quraish (or two persons from Quraish and one from Bani Thaqif) who had fat bellies but little wisdom, met near the Ka`ba.
One of them said, "Did you see that Allah hears what we say?" The other said, "He hears us if we speak aloud, but He does not hear if we speak in stealthy quietness (softly)." The third fellow said, "If He hears when we speak aloud, then He surely hears us if we speak in stealthy quietness (softly)."
So Allah revealed the Verse: 'And you have not been screening against yourselves, lest your ears, and your eyes and your skins should testify against you...' (Surah 41: Ayah 22)
Hadith - 147
Narrated `Ikrima: Ibn `Abbas said, "How can you ask the people of the Scriptures about their Books while you have Allah's Book (the Qur'an) which is the most recent of the Books revealed by Allah, and you read it in its pure undistorted form?"
Hadith - 148
Narrated 'Ubaidullah bin `Abdullah: `Abdullah bin `Abbas said, "O the group of Muslims! How can you ask the people of the Scriptures about anything while your Book which Allah has revealed to your Prophet contains the most recent news from Allah, and is pure and not distorted?
Allah has told you that the people of the Scriptures have changed some of Allah's Books and distorted it and wrote something with their own hands and said, 'This is from Allah,' so as to have a minor gain for it.
Won't the knowledge that has come to you stop you from asking them? No, by Allah, we have never seen a man from them asking you about that (the Book Al-Qur'an) which has been revealed to you."
Hadith - 149
Narrated Musa bin Abi `Aisha: Sa`id bin Jubair reported from Ibn `Abbas (regarding the explanation of the Verse: 'Do not move your tongue concerning (the Qur'an) to make haste therewith). He said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) used to undergo great difficulty in receiving the Divine Inspiration and used to move his lips.'
Ibn `Abbas said (to Sa`id), "I move them (my lips) as Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to move his lips." And Sa`id said (to me), "I move my lips as I saw Ibn `Abbas moving his lips," and then he moved his lips.
So Allah revealed: '(O Muhammad!) Do not move your tongue concerning (the Qur'an) to make haste therewith. It is for Us to collect it and give you (O Muhammad) the ability to recite it (i.e., to collect it in your chest and then you recite it).' (Surah 75: Ayat 16-17)
But when We have recited it, to you (O Muhammad through Gabriel) then follow you its recital' (Surah 75: Ayah 18). This means, "You should listen to it and keep quiet and then it is upon Us to make you recite it."
The narrator added, "So Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to listen whenever Gabriel came to him, and when Gabriel left, the Prophet (ﷺ) would recite the Qur'an as Gabriel had recited it to him."
Hadith - 150
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: regarding the explanation of the Verse: '(O Muhammad!) Neither say your prayer aloud, nor say it in a low tone,' (Surah 17: Ayah 110): This Verse was revealed while Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was hiding himself at Mecca.
At that time, when he led his companions in prayer, he used to raise his voice while reciting the Qur'an; and if the pagans heard him, they would abuse the Qur'an, its Revealer, and the one who brought it.
So Allah said to His Prophet: "Neither say your prayer aloud," i.e., your recitation (of Qur'an) lest the pagans should hear (it) and abuse the Qur'an, "nor say it in a low tone," lest your voice should fail to reach your companions, "but follow a way between."
Hadith - 151
Narrated `Aisha: The Verse: '(O Muhammad!) Neither say your prayer aloud nor say it in a low tone,' (Surah 17: Ayah 110) was revealed in connection with the invocations.
Hadith - 152
Narrated Abu Salama: Abu Huraira said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, 'Whoever does not recite Qur'an in a nice voice is not from us,' and others said extra, "(that means) to recite it aloud."
Hadith - 153
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Not to wish to be the like of, except the like of two men: a man whom Allah has given the Qur'an and he recites it during the hours of the night and the hours of the day, in which case one may say, "If I were given the same as this man has been given I would do the same as he is doing.'
The other is a man whom Allah has given wealth and he spends it in the right way, in which case one may say, 'If I were given the same as he has been given, I would do the same as he is doing.'"
Hadith - 154
Narrated Salim's father: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Not to wish to be the like of except the like of two (persons): a man whom Allah has given the knowledge of the Qur'an and he recites it during the hours of the night and the hours of the day; and a man whom Allah has given wealth and he spends it (in Allah's Cause) during the hours of the night and during the hours of the day."
Hadith - 155
Narrated Al-Mughira: Our Prophet has informed us our Lord's Message that whoever of us is martyred, will go to Paradise.
Hadith - 156
Narrated `Aisha: Whoever tells you that the Prophet (ﷺ) concealed something of the Divine Inspiration, do not believe him, for Allah said: 'O Apostle Muhammad! Proclaim (the Message) which has been sent down to you from your Lord, and if you do it not, then you have not conveyed His Message.' (Surah 5: Ayah 67)
Hadith - 157
Narrated `Abdullah: A man said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Which sin is the biggest in Allah's Sight?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "To set up rivals unto Allah though He Alone created you."
That man said, "What is next?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "To kill your son lest he should share your food with you."
The man said, "What is next?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "To commit illegal sexual intercourse with the wife of your neighbor."
Then Allah revealed in confirmation of that: "And those who invoke not with Allah any other god, nor kill such life as Allah has made sacred except for just cause, nor commit illegal sexual intercourse; and whoever does this shall receive the punishment." (Surah 25: Ayah 68)
Hadith - 158
Narrated Ibn `Umar: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Your stay (in this world) in comparison to the stay of the nations preceding you, is like the period between `Asr prayer and the sunset (in comparison to a whole day).
The people of the Torah were given the Torah and they acted on it till midday and then they were unable to carry on. And they were given (a reward equal to) one Qirat each.
Then the people of the Gospel were given the Gospel and they acted on it till `Asr Prayer and then they were unable to carry on, so they were given a reward equal to one Qirat each.
Then you were given the Qur'an and you acted on it till sunset, therefore you were given (a reward equal to) two Qirats each.
On that, the people of the Scriptures said, 'These people (Muslims) did less work than we but they took a bigger reward.'
Allah said (to them), 'Have I done any oppression to you as regards your rights?' They said, 'No.' Then Allah said, 'That is My Blessing which I grant to whomsoever I will.'"
Hadith - 159
Narrated Ibn Mas`ud: A man asked the Prophet (ﷺ), "What deeds are the best?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said: "(1) To perform the (daily compulsory) prayers at their (early) stated fixed times, (2) to be good and dutiful to one's own parents, (3) and to participate in Jihad in Allah's Cause."
Hadith - 160
Narrated Al-Hasan: `Amr bin Taghlib said, "Some property was given to the Prophet (ﷺ) and he gave it to some people and withheld it from some others. Then he came to know that they (the latter) were dissatisfied.
So the Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'I give to one man and leave (do not give) another, and the one to whom I do not give is dearer to me than the one to whom I give.
I give to some people because of the impatience and discontent present in their hearts, and leave other people because of the content and goodness Allah has bestowed on them, and one of them is `Amr bin Taghlib."
`Amr bin Taghlib said, "The sentence which Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said in my favor is dearer to me than the possession of nice red camels."
Hadith - 161
Narrated Anas: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "My Lord says, 'If My slave comes nearer to me for a span, I go nearer to him for a cubit; and if he comes nearer to Me for a cubit, I go nearer to him for the span of outstretched arms; and if he comes to Me walking, I go to him running.'"
Hadith - 162
Narrated Abu Huraira: Perhaps the Prophet (ﷺ) mentioned the following (as Allah's Saying): "If My slave comes nearer to Me for a span, I go nearer to him for a cubit; and if he comes nearer to Me for a cubit; I go nearer to him for the span of outstretched arms."
Hadith - 163
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said that your Lord said, "Every (sinful) deed can be expiated; and the fast is for Me, so I will give the reward for it; and the smell which comes out of the mouth of a fasting person is better in Allah's Sight than the smell of musk."
Hadith - 164
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: The Prophet (ﷺ) said that his Lord said: "It does not befit a slave that he should say that he is better than Jonah (Yunus) bin Matta."
Hadith - 165
Narrated Shu`ba: Mu'awiya bin Qurra reported that `Abdullah bin Al-Mughaffal Al-Muzani said, "I saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) on the day of the Conquest of Mecca, riding his she-camel and reciting Surat-al-Fath (Surah 48) or part of Surat-al-Fath. He recited it in a vibrating and pleasant voice."
Then Mu'awiya recited as `Abdullah bin Mughaffal had done and said, "Were I not afraid that the people would crowd around me, I would surely recite in a vibrating pleasant voice as Ibn Mughaffal did, imitating the Prophet (ﷺ)."
I asked Muawiya, "How did he recite in that tone?" He said thrice, "A, A, A."
Hadith - 166
And Ibn 'Abbas narrated: Abu Sufyan bin Harb told me that Heraclius called for his translator and then asked for the letter of the Prophet (ﷺ), and the former read it (thus): "In the Name of Allah, the Most Gracious, the Merciful. (This letter is) from Muhammad bin 'Abdullah, to Heraclius: "...O people of the Scripture (Jews and Christians): Come to a word that is just between us and you, that we worship none but Allah..." (Surah 3: Ayah 64)
Hadith - 167
Narrated Abu Huraira: The people of the Scripture used to read the Torah in Hebrew and explain it to the Muslims in Arabic. Then Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Do not believe the people of the Scripture, and do not disbelieve them, but say, 'We believe in Allah and whatever has been revealed.'"
Hadith - 168
Narrated Ibn `Umar: A Jew and Jewess were brought to the Prophet (ﷺ) on a charge of committing an illegal sexual intercourse. The Prophet (ﷺ) asked the Jews, "What do you (usually) do with them?" They said, "We blacken their faces and disgrace them."
He said, "Bring here the Torah and recite it, if you are truthful." They (fetched it and) came and asked a one-eyed man to recite. He went on reciting till he reached a portion on which he put his hand.
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Lift up your hand!" He lifted his hand up and behold, there appeared the verse of Ar-Rajm (stoning of the adulterers to death). Then he said, "O Muhammad! They should be stoned to death, but we conceal this Divine Law among ourselves."
Then the Prophet (ﷺ) ordered that the two sinners be stoned to death, and they were stoned to death, and I saw the man protecting the woman from the stones.
Hadith - 169
Narrated Abu Huraira: That he heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "Allah does not listen to anything as He listens to the recitation of the Qur'an by a Prophet who recites it in attractive audible sweet sounding voice."
Hadith - 170
Narrated `Aisha: (when the slanderers said what they said about her): I went to my bed knowing at that time that I was innocent and that Allah would reveal my innocence, but by Allah, I never thought that Allah would reveal in my favor a revelation which would be recited, for I considered myself too unimportant to be talked about by Allah in the Divine Revelation that was to be recited.
So Allah revealed the ten Verses (of Surat-an-Nur), 'Those who brought a false charge...' (Surah 24: Ayat 11-20)
Hadith - 171
Narrated Al-Bara': I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) reciting Surat at-Tin (By the Fig and the Olive) in the `Isha' prayer, and I have never heard anybody with a better voice or recitation than his.
Hadith - 172
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: The Prophet (ﷺ) was hiding himself in Mecca and used to recite the (Qur'an) in a loud voice. When the pagans heard him they would abuse the Qur'an and the one who brought it, so Allah said to His Prophet: 'Neither say your prayer aloud, nor say it in a low tone.' (Surah 17: Ayah 110)
Hadith - 173
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Abdur-Rahman: That Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri said to him, "I see that you like sheep and the desert, so when you are looking after your sheep or when you are in the desert and want to pronounce the Adhan, raise your voice, for no Jinn, human being or any other things hear the Mu`adh-dhin's voice but will be a witness for him on the Day of Resurrection."
Abu Sa`id added, "I heard this from Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)."
Hadith - 174
Narrated `Aisha: The Prophet (ﷺ) used to recite the Qur'an with his head in my lap while I used to be in my periods (having menses).
Hadith - 175
Narrated `Umar bin Al-Khattab: I heard Hisham bin Hakim reciting Surat-al-Furqan during the lifetime of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). I listened to his recitation and noticed that he was reciting in a way that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had not taught me.
I was about to jump over him while he was still in prayer, but I waited patiently and when he finished his prayer, I put my sheet round his neck (and pulled him) and said, "Who has taught you this Sura which I have heard you reciting?"
Hisham said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) taught it to me." I said, "You are telling a lie, for he taught it to me in a way different from the way you have recited it!"
Then I started leading (dragged) him to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and said (to the Prophet), "I have heard this man reciting Surah al-Furqan in a way that you have not taught me."
The Prophet (ﷺ) said: "(O `Umar) release him! Recite, O Hisham." Hisham recited in the way I heard him reciting. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "It was revealed like this."
Then Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Recite, O `Umar!" I recited in the way he had taught me, whereupon he said, "It was revealed like this," and added, "The Qur'an has been revealed to be recited in seven different ways, so recite of it whichever is easy for you."
Hadith - 176
Narrated `Imran: I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Why should a doer (people) try to do good deeds?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Everybody will find easy to do such deeds as will lead him to his destined place for which he has been created."
Hadith - 177
Narrated `Ali: While the Prophet (ﷺ) was in a funeral procession, he took a stick and started scraping the earth with it and said, "There is none of you but has his place assigned either in Hell or in Paradise." They (the people) said, "Shall we not depend upon that (and give up doing any deeds)?"
He said, "Carry on doing (good deeds) for everybody will find it easy to do such deeds as will lead him to his destined place for which he has been created." (And then the Prophet (ﷺ) recited the Verse): "As for him who gives (in charity) and keeps his duty to Allah." (Surah 92: Ayah 5)
Hadith - 178
Narrated Abu Huraira: I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "Before Allah created the creations, He wrote a Book (wherein He has written): 'My Mercy has preceded My Anger,' and that (Book) is written with Him over the Throne."
Hadith - 179
Narrated Abu Hurairah: I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying: "Before Allah created the creations, He wrote a Book (wherein He has written): 'My Mercy has preceded My Anger.' And that is written with Him over the Throne."
Hadith - 180
Narrated Zahdam: There were good relations and brotherhood between this tribe of Jurm and the Ash`ariyyin. Once, while we were sitting with Abu Musa Al-Ash`ari, there was brought to him a meal which contained chicken meat, and there was sitting beside him a man from the tribe of Bani Taimullah who looked like one of the Mawali.
Abu Musa invited the man to eat but the man said, "I have seen chicken eating some dirty things, and I have taken an oath not to eat chicken." Abu Musa said to him, "Come along, let me tell you something in this regard.
Once I went to the Prophet (ﷺ) with a few men from Ash`ariyyin and we asked him for mounts. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'By Allah, I will not mount you on anything; besides I do not have anything to mount you on.'
Then a few camels from the war booty were brought to the Prophet (ﷺ), and he asked about us, saying, 'Where are the group of Ash`ariyyin?' So he ordered for five fat camels to be given to us and then we set out.
We said, 'What have we done? Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) took an oath that he would not give us anything to ride and that he had nothing for us to ride, yet he provided us with mounts. We made Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forget his oath! By Allah, we will never be successful.'
So we returned to him and reminded him of his oath. He said, 'I have not provided you with the mount, but Allah has done so. By Allah, I may take an oath to do something, but on finding something else which is better, I do that which is better and make the expiation for my oath.'"
Hadith - 181
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: The delegates of `Abdul-Qais came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and said, "The pagans of the tribe of Mudar intervene between you and us, therefore we cannot come to you except in the Holy months.
So please order us to do something good (Religious deeds) by which we may enter Paradise (by acting on them) and we may inform our people whom we have left behind to observe it."
The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I order you to do four things and forbid you from four things: I order you to believe in Allah. Do you know what is meant by belief in Allah? It is to testify that none has the right to be worshipped except Allah, to offer prayers perfectly, to give Zakat, and to give Al-Khumus (one-fifth of the war booty) (in Allah's Cause).
And I forbid you four things, (i.e., Do not drink alcoholic drinks) Ad-Dubba, An-Naqir, (pitched water skins), Az-Zuruf, Al-Muzaffat and Al-Hantam (names of utensils used for the preparation of alcoholic drinks)."
Hadith - 182
Narrated Aisha: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The painter of these pictures will be punished on the Day of Resurrection, and it will be said to them, 'Make alive what you have created.'"
Hadith - 183
Narrated Ibn `Umar: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The painters of these pictures will be punished on the Day of Resurrection, and it will be said to them, 'Make alive what you have created.'"
Hadith - 184
Narrated Abu Huraira: I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "Allah said, 'Who are most unjust than those who try to create something like My creation? I challenge them to create even a smallest ant, a wheat grain or a barley grain.'"
Hadith - 185
Narrated Abu Musa: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'The example of a believer who recites the Qur'an is that of a citron (a citrus fruit) which is good in taste and good in smell.
And the believer who does not recite the Qur'an is like a date which has a good taste but no smell.
And the example of an impious person who recites the Qur'an is that of Ar-Rihana (an aromatic plant) which smells good but is bitter in taste.
And the example of an impious person who does not recite the Qur'an is that of a colocynth which is bitter in taste and has no smell."
Hadith - 186
Narrated `Aisha: Some people asked the Prophet (ﷺ) regarding the soothsayers. He said, "They are nothing."
They said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Some of their talks come true." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "That word which happens to be true is what a Jinn snatches away by stealth (from the Heaven) and pours it in the ears of his friend (the foreteller) with a sound like the cackling of a hen. The soothsayers then mix with that word one hundred lies."
Hadith - 187
Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "There will emerge from the East some people who will recite the Qur'an but it will not exceed their throats and who will go out of (renounce) the religion (Islam) as an arrow passes through the game, and they will never come back to it unless the arrow comes back to the middle of the bow (by itself) (i.e., impossible)."
The people asked, "What will their signs be?" He said, "Their sign will be the habit of shaving (of their beards and their heads)."
Hadith - 188
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, '(There are) two words which are dear to the Beneficent (Allah) and very light (easy) for the tongue (to say), but very heavy in weight in the balance. They are: "Subhan Allah wa bihamdihi" and "Subhan Allah Al-`Azim."'