Chapter 1 - Fasting in Ramadhan
Fasting (Sawm) in Ramadhan, the 9th month in the Hijri Calendar, is one of the Five Pillars of Islam. The meaning of Sawm is to 'abstain'.
In this month, Allah (Glorified and Exalted is He) has made fasting obligatory upon Muslims, as He had to earlier peoples and nations.
Fasting involves total abstinence from eating, drinking, smoking and conjugal relations, and all forms of vice from dawn until sunset.
The Prophet (May the peace and blessing of Allah be on him) said: "There is a gate in Paradise called Ar-Rayyan, and those who observe fasting will enter through it on the Day of Resurrection and none except them will enter through it". (Sahih Al-Bukhari, Volume 3, Book 31, Number 120)
During the month of Ramadhan, the Prophet (May the peace and blessing of Allah be on him) spent his days in remembrance, recitation, learning and providing advice and training.
His nights were spent in supplication in a state of humble submission unto Allah (Glorified and Exalted is He), seeking His help, support, victory and guidance.
The Prophet (May the peace and blessing of Allah be on him) said that Allah (Glorified and Exalted is He) said: "Every action of the son of Adam is for himself except fasting. It is done for My sake, and I will give a reward for it and the reward of good deeds is multiplied 10 times." (Sahih Al-Bukhari, Volume 3, Book 31, Number 118, & Sahih Muslim, Book 6, Number 2564)
Ramadhan is an annual training programme to refresh us for carrying out our duties towards Allah (Glorified and Exalted is He). Fasting develops self-control and helps us to overcome selfishness, greed, laziness and other faults.
This month of patience gives us an opportunity to experience for ourselves what it is like to have an empty stomach. This develops our empathy for the poor and hungry.
Fasting teaches us to control the love of comfort. If you experience difficulty in fasting, you should bear it cheerfully and not complain. Should we feel fatigued at the time of Taraweeh (Ramadhan nightly prayer), this too should be borne with fortitude.
It should also be borne in mind that fasting does not aim at inflicting punishment upon people or taking on unbearable burdens. The underlying idea behind it is to teach moderation and spiritual discipline so that human temptations may not become so wild and uncontrollable as to flout the commands of the Great Master.
To be a true servant of Allah (Glorified and Exalted is He), it is essential that man should be able to conform his behaviour to the moral and spiritual discipline embodied in the Shari'ah of Islam. Fasting is indispensable for this moral and spiritual training.
The Prophet (May the peace and blessing of Allah be on him) said, "When the month of Ramadhan starts, the gates of mercy are opened and the gates of Hell are locked and the devils are chained". (Sahih Muslim, Book 6, Number 2361)
The Hadeeth below gives some very important points regarding Ramadhan: The Prophet (May the peace and blessing of Allah be on him) said: "Fasting is a shield or protection from the Fire and from committing sins. If one is fasting, he should avoid sexual relations with his wife and quarrelling, and if somebody should fight or quarrel with him, he should say, 'I am fasting.'
There are two pleasures for the fasting person, one at the time of breaking his fast, and other at the time when he will meet Allah; then he will be pleased because of his fasting." (Sahih Al-Bukhari, Volume 3, Book 31, Number 128)
In this month, the rebellious Shayateen (Satans) are chained, so as not to provoke the evils that they normally do during months other than Ramadhan.
A question may arise here: When the Shayateen are chained, how it is that we still do see evil committed?
The reply is that evil may not necessarily be caused by the rebellious Shayateen. People have lived in obedience to the whims and wishes of Shayateen for eleven months, and so performing evil deeds instigated by them becomes second nature.
Consequently, evil actions are perpetrated in and out of Ramadhan. Therefore, the feelings and lessons we experience should stay with us throughout the year.
In Al-Qur'an, Muslims are commanded to fast so that they may "become pious". This piety and devotion is especially felt during Ramadhan, but we all must strive to make the feelings and attitude stay with us during our "normal" lives. That is the true goal and test of Ramadhan.
The Prophet (May the peace and blessing of Allah be on him) said: "Every servant of Allah who observes fast for a day in the way of Allah, Allah would remove, because of this day, his face farther from the Fire of Hell to the extent of seventy years' distance". (Sahih Muslim, Book 6, Number 2570)
Fasting is the way to piety and the fear of God. Fasting narrows the food and blood arteries. They are known to be pathways of the devils, hence fasting reduces the effect of their insinuation.
It further weakens carnal desires, thoughts and temptations of disobedience. Fasting enhances bodily health. It gets rid of toxins, eases the stomach, purifies the blood, eases the working of the heart, brightens the spirit, refines the soul and disciplines the character.
When an individual fasts, his soul is humbled and his carnal desires are dispelled. There is a great reward for fasting, as it shows a Muslim obeying Allah (Glorified and Exalted is He) and submitting to His command.