Hadith - 1
Narrated Abu Huraira:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (p.b.u.h) saying, "We (Muslims) are the last (to come) but (will be) the foremost on the Day of Resurrection though the former nations were given the Holy Scriptures before us. And this was their day (Friday) the celebration of which was made compulsory for them but they differed about it. So Allah gave us the guidance for it (Friday) and all the other people are behind us in this respect: the Jews' (holy day is) tomorrow (i.e. Saturday) and the Christians' (is) the day after tomorrow (i.e. Sunday).
Hadith - 2
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (p.b.u.h) said, "Anyone of you attending the Friday (prayers) should take a bath.
Hadith - 3
Narrated Ibn `Umar:While `Umar bin Al-Khattab was standing and delivering the sermon on a Friday, one of the companions of the Prophet, who was one of the foremost Muhajirs (emigrants) came. `Umar said to him, "What is the time now?" He replied, "I was busy and could not go back to my house till I heard the Adhan. I did not perform more than the ablution." Thereupon `Umar said to him, "Did you perform only the ablution although you know that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (p.b.u.h) used to order us to take a bath (on Fridays)?
Hadith - 4
Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (p.b.u.h) said, "The taking of a bath on Friday is compulsory for every male (Muslim) who has attained the age of puberty.
Hadith - 5
Narrated Abu Sa`id:I testify that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The taking of a bath on Friday is compulsory for every male Muslim who has attained the age of puberty and (also) the cleaning of his teeth with Siwak, and the using of perfume if it is available." `Amr (a sub-narrator) said, "I confirm that the taking of a bath is compulsory, but as for the Siwak and the using of perfume, Allah knows better whether it is obligatory or not, but according to the Hadith it is as above.
Hadith - 6
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (p.b.u.h) said, "Any person who takes a bath on Friday like the bath of Janaba and then goes for the prayer (in the first hour i.e. early), it is as if he had sacrificed a camel (in Allah's cause); and whoever goes in the second hour it is as if he had sacrificed a cow; and whoever goes in the third hour, then it is as if he had sacrificed a horned ram; and if one goes in the fourth hour, then it is as if he had sacrificed a hen; and whoever goes in the fifth hour then it is as if he had offered an egg. When the Imam comes out (i.e. starts delivering the Khutba), the angels present themselves to listen to the Khutba.
Hadith - 7
Narrated Abu Huraira:While `Umar (bin Al-Khattab) was delivering the Khutba on a Friday, a man entered (the mosque). `Umar asked him, "What has detained you from the prayer?" The man said, "It was only that when I heard the Adhan I performed ablution (for the prayer)." On that `Umar said, "Did you not hear the Prophet saying: 'Anyone of you going out for the Jumua prayer should take a bath'?
Hadith - 8
Narrated Salman-Al-Farsi:The Prophet (p.b.u.h) said, "Whoever takes a bath on Friday, purifies himself as much as he can, then uses his (hair) oil or perfumes himself with the scent of his house, then proceeds (for the Jumua prayer) and does not separate two persons sitting together (in the mosque), then prays as much as (Allah has) written for him and then remains silent while the Imam is delivering the Khutba, his sins in-between the present and the last Friday would be forgiven.
Hadith - 9
Narrated Tawus:I said to Ibn `Abbas, "The people are narrating that the Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'Take a bath on Friday and wash your heads (i.e. take a thorough bath) even though you were not Junub and use perfume'." On that Ibn `Abbas replied, "I know about the bath, (i.e. it is essential) but I do not know about the perfume (i.e. whether it is essential or not).
Hadith - 10
Narrated Tawus:Ibn `Abbas mentioned the statement of the Prophet (ﷺ) regarding the taking of a bath on Friday and then I asked him whether the Prophet (p.b.u.h) had ordered perfume or (hair) oil to be used if they could be found in one's house. He (Ibn `Abbas) replied that he did not know about it.
Hadith - 11
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:`Umar bin Al-Khattab saw a silken cloak (being sold) at the gate of the Mosque and said to Allah's Apostle, "I wish you would buy this to wear on Fridays and also on occasions of the arrivals of the delegations." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) replied, "This will be worn by a person who will have no share (reward) in the Hereafter." Later on similar cloaks were given to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and he gave one of them to `Umar bin Al-Khattab. On that `Umar said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! You have given me this cloak although on the cloak of Atarid (a cloak merchant who was selling that silken cloak at the gate of the mosque) you passed such and such a remark." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) replied, "I have not given you this to wear". And so `Umar bin Al-Khattab gave it to his pagan brother in Mecca to wear.
Hadith - 12
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If I had not found it hard for my followers or the people, I would have ordered them to clean their teeth with Siwak for every prayer.
Hadith - 13
Narrated Anas:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "I have told you repeatedly to use the Siwak. (The Prophet (ﷺ) put emphasis on the use of the Siwak.
Hadith - 14
Narrated Hudhaifa:When the Prophet (p.b.u.h) got up at night (for the night prayer), he used to clean his mouth.
Hadith - 15
Narrated `Aisha:`Abdur-Rahman bin Abi Bakr came holding a Siwak with which he was cleaning his teeth. Allah's Apostle looked at him. I requested `Abdur-Rahman to give the Siwak to me and after he gave it to me I divided it, chewed it and gave it to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). Then he cleaned his teeth with it and (at that time) he was resting against my chest.
Hadith - 16
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to recite the following in the Fajr prayer of Friday, "Alif, Lam, Mim, Tanzil" (Suratas- Sajda #32) and "Hal-ata-ala-l-Insani" (i.e. Surah-Ad-Dahr).
Hadith - 17
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The first Jumua prayer which was offered after a Jumua prayer offered at the mosque of Allah's Apostle took place in the mosque of the tribe of `Abdul Qais at Jawathi in Bahrain.
Hadith - 18
Narrated Ibn `Umar:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "All of you are Guardians." Yunis said: Ruzaiq bin Hukaim wrote to Ibn Shihab while I was with him at Wadi-al-Qura saying, "Shall I lead the Jumua prayer?" Ruzaiq was working on the land (i.e. farming) and there was a group of Sudanese people and some others with him; Ruzaiq was then the Governor of Aila. Ibn Shihab wrote (to Ruzaiq) ordering him to lead the Jumua prayer and telling him that Salim told him that `Abdullah bin `Umar had said, "I heard Allah's Apostle saying, 'All of you are guardians and responsible for your wards and the things under your care. The Imam (i.e. ruler) is the guardian of his subjects and is responsible for them and a man is the guardian of his family and is responsible for them. A woman is the guardian of her husband's house and is responsible for it. A servant is the guardian of his master's belongings and is responsible for them.' I thought that he also said, 'A man is the guardian of his father's property and is responsible for it. All of you are guardians and responsible for your wards and the things under your care.
Hadith - 19
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "Anyone of you coming for the Jumua prayer should take a bath.
Hadith - 20
Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The taking of a bath on Friday is compulsory for every Muslim who has attained the age of puberty.
Hadith - 21
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said "We are the last (to come amongst the nations) but (will be) the foremost on the Day of Resurrection. They were given the Holy Scripture before us and we were given the Quran after them. And this was the day (Friday) about which they differed and Allah gave us the guidance (for that). So tomorrow (i.e. Saturday) is the Jews' (day), and the day after tomorrow (i.e. Sunday) is the Christians'." The Prophet (p.b.u.h) remained silent (for a while) and then said, "It is obligatory for every Muslim that he should take a bath once in seven days, when he should wash his head and body.
Hadith - 21
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said "We are the last (to come amongst the nations) but (will be) the foremost on the Day of Resurrection. They were given the Holy Scripture before us and we were given the Quran after them. And this was the day (Friday) about which they differed and Allah gave us the guidance (for that). So tomorrow (i.e. Saturday) is the Jews' (day), and the day after tomorrow (i.e. Sunday) is the Christians'." The Prophet (p.b.u.h) remained silent (for a while) and then said, "It is obligatory for every Muslim that he should take a bath once in seven days, when he should wash his head and body.
Hadith - 22
Narrated Abu Huraira through different narrators that the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "It is Allah's right on every Muslim that he should take a bath (at least) once in seven days.
Hadith - 23
Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (p.b.u.h) said, "Allow women to go to the Mosques at night.
Hadith - 24
Narrated Ibn `Umar:One of the wives of `Umar (bin Al-Khattab) used to offer the Fajr and the `Isha' prayer in congregation in the Mosque. She was asked why she had come out for the prayer as she knew that `Umar disliked it, and he has great ghaira (self-respect). She replied, "What prevents him from stopping me from this act?" The other replied, "The statement of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) : 'Do not stop Allah's women-slaves from going to Allah's Mosques' prevents him.
Hadith - 25
Narrated Muhammad bin Seereen:On a rainy day Ibn `Abbas said to his Mu'adh-dhin, "After saying, 'Ash-hadu anna Muhammadan Rasulullah' (I testify that Muhammad is Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)), do not say 'Haiya 'Alas-Salat' (come for the prayer) but say 'Pray in your houses'." (The man did so). But the people disliked it. Ibn `Abbas said, "It was done by one who was much better than I (i.e. the Prophet (p.b.u.h) ). No doubt, the Jumua prayer is compulsory but I dislike to put you to task by bringing you out walking in mud and slush.
Hadith - 26
Narrated Aisha:(the wife of the Prophet) The people used to come from their abodes and from Al-`Awali (i.e. outskirts of Medina up to a distance of four miles or more from Medina). They used to pass through dust and used to be drenched with sweat and covered with dust; so sweat used to trickle from them. One of them came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) who was in my house. The Prophet (ﷺ) said to him, "I wish that you keep yourself clean on this day of yours (i.e. take a bath).
Hadith - 27
Narrated Yahya bin Sa`id:I asked `Amra about taking a bath on Fridays. She replied, " Aisha said, 'The people used to work (for their livelihood) and whenever they went for the Jumua prayer, they used to go to the mosque in the same shape as they had been in work. So they were asked to take a bath on Friday.
Hadith - 28
Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to offer the Jumua prayer immediately after midday.
Hadith - 29
Narrated Anas bin Malik:We used to offer the Jumua prayer early and then have an afternoon nap.
Hadith - 30
Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to offer the prayer earlier if it was very cold; and if it was very hot he used to delay the prayer, i.e. the Jumua prayer.
Hadith - 31
Narrated Abu `Abs:I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "Anyone whose feet are covered with dust in Allah's cause, shall be saved by Allah from the Hell-Fire.
Hadith - 32
Narrated Abu Huraira:heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)s (p.b.u.h) saying, "If the prayer is started do not run for it but just walk for it calmly and pray whatever you get, and complete whatever is missed.
Hadith - 33
Narrated `Abdullah bin Abi Qatada on the authority of his father:The Prophet (p.b.u.h) said, "Do not stand up (for prayer) unless you see me, and observe calmness and solemnity.
Hadith - 34
Narrated Salman Al-Farsi:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (p.b.u.h) said, "Anyone who takes a bath on Friday and cleans himself as much as he can and puts oil (on his hair) or scents himself; and then proceeds for the prayer and does not force his way between two persons (assembled in the mosque for the Friday prayer), and prays as much as is written for him and remains quiet when the Imam delivers the Khutba, all his sins in between the present and the last Friday will be forgiven.
Hadith - 35
Narrated Ibn Juraij:I heard Nazi' saying, "Ibn `Umar, said, 'The Prophet (ﷺ) forbade that a man should make another man to get up to sit in his place' ". I said to Nafi`, 'Is it for Jumua prayer only?' He replied, "For Jumua prayer and any other (prayer).
Hadith - 36
Narrated As-Saib bin Yazid:In the lifetime of the Prophet, Abu Bakr and `Umar, the Adhan for the Jumua prayer used to be pronounced when the Imam sat on the pulpit. But during the Caliphate of `Uthman when the Muslims increased in number, a third Adhan at Az-Zaura' was added. Abu `Abdullah said, "Az-Zaura' is a place in the market of Medina.
Hadith - 37
Narrated As-Saib bin Yazid:The person who increased the number of Adhans for the Jumua prayers to three was `Uthman bin `Affan and it was when the number of the (Muslim) people of Medina had increased. In the lifetime of the Prophet (ﷺ) there was only one Mu'adh-dhin and the Adhan used to be pronounced only after the Imam had taken his seat (i.e. on the pulpit).
Hadith - 38
Narrated Abu Umama bin Sahl bin Hunaif:I heard Muawiya bin Abi Sufyan (repeating the statements of the Adhan) while he was sitting on the pulpit. When the Mu'adh-dhin pronounced the Adhan saying, "Allahu-Akbar, Allahu Akbar", Muawiya said: "Allah Akbar, Allahu Akbar." And when the Mu'adh-dhin said, "Ash-hadu an la ilaha illal-lah (I testify that none has the right to be worshipped but Allah)", Muawiya said, "And (so do) I". When he said, "Ash-hadu anna Muhammadan Rasulullah" (I testify that Muhammad is Allah's Apostle), Muawiya said, "And (so do) I". When the Adhan was finished, Muawiya said, "O people, when the Mu'adh-dhin pronounced the Adhan I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) on this very pulpit saying what you have just heard me saying.
Hadith - 39
Narrated As-Sa'ib bin Yazid I:`Uthman bin `Affan introduced the second Adhan on Fridays when the number of the people in the mosque increased. Previously the Adhan on Fridays used to be pronounced only after the Imam had taken his seat (on the pulpit).
Hadith - 40
Narrated Az-Zuhri:I heard As-Saib bin Yazid, saying, "In the lifetime of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), and Abu Bakr and `Umar, the Adhan for the Jumua prayer used to be pronounced after the Imam had taken his seat on the pulpit. But when the people increased in number during the caliphate of `Uthman, he introduced a third Adhan (on Friday for the Jumua prayer) and it was pronounced at Az-Zaura' and that new state of affairs remained so in the succeeding years.
Hadith - 41
Narrated Abu Hazim bin Dinar:Some people went to Sahl bin Sa`d As-Sa`idi and told him that they had different opinions regarding the wood of the pulpit. They asked him about it and he said, "By Allah, I know of what wood the pulpit was made, and no doubt I saw it on the very first day when Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) took his seat on it. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) sent for such and such an Ansari woman (and Sahl mentioned her name) and said to her, 'Order your slave-carpenter to prepare for me some pieces of wood (i.e. pulpit) on which I may sit at the time of addressing the people.' So she ordered her slave-carpenter and he made it from the tamarisk of the forest and brought it (to the woman). The woman sent that (pulpit) to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) who ordered it to be placed here. Then I saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) praying on it and then bowed on it. Then he stepped back, got down and prostrated on the ground near the foot of the pulpit and again ascended the pulpit. After finishing the prayer he faced the people and said, 'I have done this so that you may follow me and learn the way I pray.
Hadith - 42
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to stand by a stem of a date-palm tree (while delivering a sermon). When the pulpit was placed for him we heard that stem crying like a pregnant she-camel till the Prophet (ﷺ) got down from the pulpit and placed his hand over it.
Hadith - 43
Narrated Salim:My father said , "I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) delivering the Khutba on the pulpit and he said, 'Whoever comes for the Jumua prayer should take a bath (before coming).
Hadith - 44
Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (p.b.u.h) used to deliver the Khutba while standing and then he would sit, then stand again as you do now-a-days.
Hadith - 45
Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri:One day the Prophet (ﷺ) sat on the pulpit and we sat around him.
Hadith - 46
Narrated Fatima bint Al-Mundhir:Asma' bint Abi Bakr As-Siddiq said, "I went to 'Aishah and the people were offering Salat. I asked her, 'What is wrong with the people ?' She pointed towards the sky with her head. I asked her, 'Is there a sign ?' 'Aishah nodded with her head meaning 'Yes'." Asma' added, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) prolonged the Salat to such an extent that I fainted. There was a waterskin by my side and I opened it and poured some water on my head. When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) finished Salat, and the solar eclipse had cleared, the Prophet (ﷺ) addressed the people and praised Allah as He deserves and said, 'Amma ba'du'." Asma' further said, "Some Ansari women started talking, so I turned to them in order to make them quiet. I asked 'Aishah what the Prophet (ﷺ) had said. 'Aishah said: 'He said, 'I have seen things at this place of mine which were never shown to me before; (I have seen) even Paradise and Hell. And, no doubt it has been revealed to me that you (people) will be put in trial in your graves like or nearly like the trial of Masih Ad-Dajjal. (The angels) will come to everyone of you and ask him, 'What do you know about this man (Prophet Muhammad (ﷺ)) ?" The faithful believer or firm believer (Hisham was in doubt which word the Prophet (ﷺ) used), will say, 'He is Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and he is Muhammad (ﷺ) who came to us with clear evidences and guidance. So we believed him, accepted his teachings and followed and trusted his teaching.' Then the angels will tell him to sleep (in peace) as they have come to know that he was a believer. But the hypocrite or a doubtful person (Hisham is not sure as to which word the Prophet (ﷺ) used), will be asked what he knew about this man (Prophet Muhammed (ﷺ)). He will say, 'I do not know but I heard the people saying something (about him) so I said the same' " Hisham added, "Fatima told me that she remembered that narration completely by heart except that she said about the hypocrite or a doubtful person that he will be punished severely.
Hadith - 47
Narrated `Amr bin Taghlib:Some property or something was brought to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and he distributed it. He gave to some men and ignored the others. Later he got the news of his being admonished by those whom he had ignored. So he glorified and praised Allah and said, "Amma ba'du. By Allah, I may give to a man and ignore another, although the one whom I ignore is more beloved to me than the one whom I give. But I give to some people as I feel that they have no patience and no contentment in their hearts and I leave those who are patient and self-content with the goodness and wealth which Allah has put into their hearts and `Amr bin Taghlib is one of them." `Amr added, By Allah! Those words of Allah's Apostle are more beloved to me than the best red camels.
Hadith - 48
Narrated Aisha:Once in the middle of the night Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (p.b.u.h) went out and prayed in the mosque and some men prayed with him. The next morning the people spoke about it and so more people gathered and prayed with him (in the second night). They circulated the news in the morning, and so, on the third night the number of people increased greatly. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (p.b.u.h) came out and they prayed behind him. On the fourth night the mosque was overwhelmed by the people till it could not accommodate them. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) came out only for the Fajr prayer and when he finished the prayer, he faced the people and recited "Tashah-hud" (I testify that none has the right to be worshipped but Allah and that Muhammad is His Apostle), and then said, "Amma ba'du. Verily your presence (in the mosque at night) was not hidden from me, but I was afraid that this prayer (Prayer of Tahajjud) might be made compulsory and you might not be able to carry it out.
Hadith - 49
Narrated Abu Hummaid As-Sa`idi:One night Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (p.b.u.h) stood up after the prayer and recited "Tashah-hud" and then praised Allah as He deserved and said, "Amma ba'du.
Hadith - 50
Narrated Al-Miswar bin Makhrama:Once Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) got up for delivering the Khutba and I heard him after "Tashah-hud" saying "Amma ba'du.
Hadith - 51
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:Once the Prophet (ﷺ) ascended the pulpit and it was the last gathering in which he took part. He was covering his shoulder with a big cloak and binding his head with an oily bandage. He glorified and praised Allah and said, "O people! Come to me." So the people came and gathered around him and he then said, "Amma ba'du." "From now onward the Ansar will decrease and other people will increase. So anybody who becomes a ruler of the followers of Muhammad and has the power to harm or benefit people then he should accept the good from the benevolent amongst them (Ansar) and overlook the faults of their wrong-doers.
Hadith - 52
Narrated `Abdullah Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to deliver two Khutbas and sit in between them.
Hadith - 53
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "When it is a Friday, the angels stand at the gate of the mosque and keep on writing the names of the persons coming to the mosque in succession according to their arrivals. The example of the one who enters the mosque in the earliest hour is that of one offering a camel (in sacrifice). The one coming next is like one offering a cow and then a ram and then a chicken and then an egg respectively. When the Imam comes out (for Jumua prayer) they (i.e. angels) fold their papers and listen to the Khutba.
Hadith - 54
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:A person entered the mosque while the Prophet (ﷺ) was delivering the Khutba on a Friday. The Prophet (ﷺ) said to him, "Have you prayed?" The man replied in the negative. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Get up and pray two rak`at.
Hadith - 55
Narrated Jabir:A man entered the Mosque while the Prophet (ﷺ) was delivering the Khutba. The Prophet (ﷺ) said to him, "Have you prayed?" The man replied in the negative. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Pray two rak`at.
Hadith - 56
Narrated Anas:While the Prophet (ﷺ) was delivering the Khutba on a Friday, a man stood up and said, "O, Allah's Apostle! The livestock and the sheep are dying, so pray to Allah for rain." So he (the Prophet) raised both his hands and invoked Allah (for it).
Hadith - 57
Narrated Anas bin Malik:Once in the lifetime of the Prophet (p.b.u.h) the people were afflicted with drought (famine). While the Prophet (ﷺ) was delivering the Khutba on a Friday, a Bedouin stood up and said, "O, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Our possessions are being destroyed and the children are hungry; Please invoke Allah (for rain)". So the Prophet (ﷺ) raised his hands. At that time there was not a trace of cloud in the sky. By Him in Whose Hands my soul is as soon as he lowered his hands, clouds gathered like mountains, and before he got down from the pulpit, I saw the rain falling on the beard of the Prophet. It rained that day, the next day, the third day, the fourth day till the next Friday. The same Bedouin or another man stood up and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! The houses have collapsed, our possessions and livestock have been drowned; Please invoke Allah (to protect us)". So the Prophet (ﷺ) raised both his hands and said, "O Allah! Round about us and not on us". So, in whatever direction he pointed with his hands, the clouds dispersed and cleared away, and Medina's (sky) became clear as a hole in between the clouds. The valley of Qanat remained flooded, for one month, none came from outside but talked about the abundant rain.
Hadith - 58
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (p.b.u.h) said, "When the Imam is delivering the Khutba, and you ask your companion to keep quiet and listen, then no doubt you have done an evil act.
Hadith - 59
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (p.b.u.h) talked about Friday and said, "There is an hour (opportune time) on Friday and if a Muslim gets it while praying and asks something from Allah, then Allah will definitely meet his demand." And he (the Prophet) pointed out the shortness of that time with his hands.
Hadith - 60
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:While we were praying (Jumua Khutba & prayer) with the Prophet (p.b.u.h), some camels loaded with food, arrived (from Sham). The people diverted their attention towards the camels (and left the mosque), and only twelve persons remained with the Prophet. So this verse was revealed: "But when they see Some bargain or some amusement, They disperse headlong to it, And leave you standing.
Hadith - 61
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to pray two rak`at before the Zuhr prayer and two rak`at after it. He also used to pray two rak`at after the Maghrib prayer in his house, and two rak`at after the `Isha' prayer. He never prayed after Jumua prayer till he departed (from the Mosque), and then he would pray two rak`at at home.
Hadith - 62
Narrated Sahl bin Sa`d:There was a woman amongst us who had a farm and she used to sow Silq (a kind of vegetable) on the edges of streams in her farm. On Fridays she used to pull out the Silq from its roots and put the roots in a utensil. Then she would put a handful of powdered barley over it and cook it. The roots of the Silq were a substitute for meat. After finishing the Jumua prayer we used to greet her and she would give us that food which we would eat with our hands, and because of that meal, we used to look forward to Friday.
Hadith - 63
Narrated Sahl:As above with the addition: We never had an afternoon nap nor meals except after offering the Jumua prayer.
Hadith - 64
Narrated Anas:We used to offer the Jumua prayer early and then have the afternoon nap.
Hadith - 65
Narrated Sahl:We used to offer the Jumua prayer with the Prophet (ﷺ) and then take the afternoon nap.
