Hadith - 1
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The prayer of a person who does Hadath (passes urine, stool or wind) is not accepted till he performs the ablution." A person from Hadaramout asked Abu Huraira, "What is 'Hadath'?" Abu Huraira replied, " 'Hadath' means the passing of wind.
Hadith - 2
Narrated Nu`am Al-Mujmir:Once I went up the roof of the mosque, along with Abu Huraira. He perform ablution and said, "I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "On the Day of Resurrection, my followers will be called "Al-Ghurr-ul-Muhajjalun" from the trace of ablution and whoever can increase the area of his radiance should do so (i.e. by performing ablution regularly).
Hadith - 3
Narrated `Abbad bin Tamim:My uncle asked Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) about a person who imagined to have passed wind during the prayer. Allah's Apostle replied: "He should not leave his prayers unless he hears sound or smells something.
Hadith - 4
Narrated Kuraib:Ibn `Abbas said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) slept till he snored and then prayed (or probably lay till his breath sounds were heard and then got up and prayed)." Ibn `Abbas added: "I stayed overnight in the house of my aunt, Maimuna, the Prophet (ﷺ) slept for a part of the night, and late in the night, he got up and performed ablution from a hanging water skin, a light (perfect) ablution and stood up for the prayer. I, too, performed a similar ablution, then I went and stood on his left. He drew me to his right and prayed as much as Allah wished, and again lay and slept till his breath sounds were heard. Later on the Mu'adh-dhin (call maker for the prayer) came to him and informed him that it was time for Prayer. The Prophet (ﷺ) went with him for the prayer without performing a new ablution." (Sufyan said to `Amr that some people said, "The eyes of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) sleep but his heart does not sleep." `Amr replied, "I heard `Ubaid bin `Umar saying that the dreams of Prophets were Divine Inspiration, and then he recited the verse: 'I (Abraham) see in a dream, (O my son) that I offer you in sacrifice (to Allah)." (37.102).
Hadith - 5
Narrated Usama bin Zaid:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) proceeded from `Arafat till when he reached the mountain pass, he dismounted, urinated and then performed ablution but not a perfect one. I said to him, ("Is it the time for) the prayer, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)?" He said, "The (place of) prayer is ahead of you." He rode till when he reached Al-Muzdalifa, he dismounted and performed ablution and a perfect one, The (call for) Iqama was pronounced and he led the Maghrib prayer. Then everybody made his camel kneel down at its place. Then the Iqama was pronounced for the `Isha' prayer which the Prophet (ﷺ) led and no prayer was offered in between the two prayers (`Isha' and Maghrib).
Hadith - 6
Narrated `Ata' bin Yasar:Ibn `Abbas performed ablution and washed his face (in the following way): He ladled out a handful of water, rinsed his mouth and washed his nose with it by putting in water and then blowing it out. He then, took another handful (of water) and did like this (gesturing) joining both hands, and washed his face, took another handful of water and washed his right forearm. He again took another handful of water and washed his left forearm, and passed wet hands over his head and took another handful of water and poured it over his right foot (up to his ankles) and washed it thoroughly and similarly took another handful of water and washed thoroughly his left foot (up to the ankles) and said, "I saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) performing ablution in this way.
Hadith - 7
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If anyone of you on having sexual relations with his wife said (and he must say it before starting) 'In the name of Allah. O Allah! Protect us from Satan and also protect what you bestow upon us (i.e. the coming offspring) from Satan, and if it is destined that they should have a child then, Satan will never be able to harm that offspring.
Hadith - 8
Narrated Anas:Whenever the Prophet (ﷺ) went to answer the call of nature, he used to say, "O Allah, I seek Refuge with You from all offensive and wicked things (evil deeds and evil spirits)".
Hadith - 9
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:Once the Prophet (ﷺ) entered a lavatory and I placed water for his ablution. He asked, "Who placed it?" He was informed accordingly and so he said, "O Allah! Make him (Ibn `Abbas) a learned scholar in religion (Islam).
Hadith - 10
Narrated Abu Aiyub Al-Ansari:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If anyone of you goes to an open space for answering the call of nature he should neither face nor turn his back towards the Qibla; he should either face the east or the west.
Hadith - 11
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:People say, "Whenever you sit for answering the call of nature, you should not face the Qibla or Baitul-Maqdis (Jerusalem)." I told them. "Once I went up the roof of our house and I saw Allah's Apostle answering the call of nature while sitting on two bricks facing Baitul-Maqdis (Jerusalem) (but there was a screen covering him).".
Hadith - 12
Narrated `Aisha:The wives of the Prophet (ﷺ) used to go to Al-Manasi, a vast open place (near Baqi` at Medina) to answer the call of nature at night. `Umar used to say to the Prophet (ﷺ) "Let your wives be veiled," but Allah's Apostle did not do so. One night Sauda bint Zam`a the wife of the Prophet (ﷺ) went out at `Isha' time and she was a tall lady. `Umar addressed her and said, "I have recognized you, O Sauda." He said so, as he desired eagerly that the verses of Al-Hijab (the observing of veils by the Muslim women) may be revealed. So Allah revealed the verses of "Al-Hijab" (A complete body cover excluding the eyes).
Hadith - 13
Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) said to his wives, "You are allowed to go out to answer the call of nature".
Hadith - 14
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:I went up to the roof of Hafsa's house for some job and I saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) answering the call of nature facing Sham (Syria, Jordan, Palestine and Lebanon regarded as one country) with his back towards the Qibla.
Hadith - 15
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:Once I went up the roof of our house and saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) answering the call of nature while sitting over two bricks facing Baitul-Maqdis (Jerusalem).
Hadith - 16
Narrated Anas bin Malik:Whenever Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) went to answer the call of nature, I along with another boy used to accompany him with a tumbler full of water. (Hisham commented, "So that he might wash his private parts with it)".
Hadith - 17
Narrated Anas:Whenever Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) went to answer the call of nature, I along with another boy from us used to go behind him with a tumbler full of water.
Hadith - 18
Narrated Anas bin Malik:Whenever Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) went to answer the call of nature, I along with another boy used to carry a tumbler full of water (for cleaning the private parts) and a short spear (or stick).
Hadith - 19
Narrated Abu Qatada:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Whenever anyone of you drinks water, he should not breathe in the drinking utensil, and whenever anyone of you goes to a lavatory, he should neither touch his penis nor clean his private parts with his right hand.
Hadith - 20
Narrated Abu Qatada:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Whenever anyone of you makes water he should not hold his penis or clean his private parts with his right hand. (And while drinking) one should not breathe in the drinking utensil".
Hadith - 21
Narrated Abu Huraira:I followed the Prophet (ﷺ) while he was going out to answer the call of nature. He used not to look this way or that. So, when I approached near him he said to me, "Fetch for me some stones for cleaning the privates parts (or said something similar), and do not bring a bone or a piece of dung." So I brought the stones in the corner of my garment and placed them by his side and I then went away from him. When he finished (from answering the call of nature) he used them.
Hadith - 22
Narrated `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) went out to answer the call of nature and asked me to bring three stones. I found two stones and searched for the third but could not find it. So took a dried piece of dung and brought it to him. He took the two stones and threw away the dung and said, "This is a filthy thing".
Hadith - 23
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) performed ablution by washing the body parts only once.
Hadith - 24
Narrated `Abdullah bin Zaid:The Prophet (ﷺ) performed ablution by washing the body parts twice.
Hadith - 25
Narrated Humran: (the slave of 'Uthman) I saw 'Uthman bin 'Affan asking for a tumbler of water (and when it was brought) he poured water over his hands and washed them thrice and then put his right hand in the water container and rinsed his mouth, washed his nose by putting water in it and then blowing it out. Then he washed his face and forearms up to the elbows thrice, passed his wet hands over his head and washed his feet up to the ankles thrice. Then he said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said 'If anyone performs ablution like that of mine and offers a two rak'at prayer during which he does not think of anything else (not related to the present prayer) then his past sins will be forgiven.
Hadith - 26
After performing the ablution 'Uthman said, "I am going to tell you a Hadith which I would not have told you, had I not been compelled by a certain Holy Verse (the sub narrator 'Urwa said:This verse is: "Verily, those who conceal the clear signs and the guidance which we have sent down...)" (2:159). I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, 'If a man performs ablution perfectly and then offers the compulsory congregational prayer, Allah will forgive his sins committed between that (prayer) and the (next) prayer till he offers it.
Hadith - 27
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Whoever performs ablution should clean his nose with water by putting the water in it and then blowing it out, and whoever cleans his private parts with stones should do it with odd number of stones.
Hadith - 28
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If anyone of you performs ablution he should put water in his nose and then blow it out and whoever cleans his private parts with stones should do so with odd numbers. And whoever wakes up from his sleep should wash his hands before putting them in the water for ablution, because nobody knows where his hands were during sleep.
Hadith - 29
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Amr:The Prophet (ﷺ) remained behind us on a journey. He joined us while we were performing ablution for the `Asr prayer which was overdue and we were just passing wet hands over our feet (not washing them thoroughly) so he addressed us in a loud voice saying twice , "Save your heels from the fire.
Hadith - 30
Narrated Humran:(the freed slave of `Uthman bin `Affan) I saw `Uthman bin `Affan asking (for a tumbler of water) to perform ablution (and when it was brought) he poured water from it over his hands and washed them thrice and then put his right hand in the water container and rinsed his mouth and washed his nose by putting water in it and then blowing it out. Then he washed his face thrice and (then) forearms up to the elbows thrice, then passed his wet hands over his head and then washed each foot thrice. After that `Uthman said, "I saw the Prophet (ﷺ) performing ablution like this of mine, and he said, 'If anyone performs ablution like that of mine and offers a two rak`at prayer during which he does not think of anything else (not related to the present prayer) then his past sins will be forgiven.
Hadith - 31
Narrated Muhammad Ibn Ziyad:I heard Abu Huraira saying as he passed by us while the people were performing ablution from a utensil containing water, "Perform ablution perfectly and thoroughly for Abul-Qasim (the Prophet) said, 'Save your heels from the Hell-fire.
Hadith - 32
Narrated `Ubaid Ibn Juraij:I asked `Abdullah bin `Umar, "O Abu `Abdur-Rahman! I saw you doing four things which I never saw being done by anyone of your companions?" `Abdullah bin `Umar said, "What are those, O Ibn Juraij?" I said, "I never saw you touching any corner of the Ka`ba except these (two) facing south (Yemen) and I saw you wearing shoes made of tanned leather and dyeing your hair with Hinna (a kind of red dye). I also noticed that whenever you were in Mecca, the people assume Ihram on seeing the new moon crescent (1st of Dhul-Hijja) while you did not assume the Ihlal (Ihram) - (Ihram is also called Ihlal which means 'Loud calling' because a Muhrim has to recite Talbiya aloud when assuming the state of Ihram) - till the 8th of Dhul-Hijja (Day of Tarwiya). `Abdullah replied, "Regarding the corners of Ka`ba, I never saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) touching except those facing south (Yemen) and regarding the tanned leather shoes, no doubt I saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) wearing non-hairy shoes and he used to perform ablution while wearing the shoes (i.e. wash his feet and then put on the shoes). So I love to wear similar shoes. And about the dyeing of hair with Hinna; no doubt I saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) dyeing his hair with it and that is why I like to dye (my hair with it). Regarding Ihlal, I did not see Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) assuming Ihlal till he set out for Hajj (on the 8th of Dhul-Hijja).
Hadith - 33
Narrated Um-`Atiya:That the Prophet (ﷺ) at the time of washing his deceased daughter had said to them, "Start from the right side beginning with those parts which are washed in ablution.
Hadith - 34
Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to like to start from the right side on wearing shoes, combing his hair and cleaning or washing himself and on doing anything else.
Hadith - 35
Narrated Anas bin Malik:saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) when the `Asr prayer was due and the people searched for water to perform ablution but they could not find it. Later on (a pot full of) water for ablution was brought to Allah's Apostle . He put his hand in that pot and ordered the people to perform ablution from it. I saw the water springing out from underneath his fingers till all of them performed the ablution (it was one of the miracles of the Prophet).
Hadith - 36
Narrated Ibn Seereen:I said to `Abida, "I have some of the hair of the Prophet (ﷺ) which I got from Anas or from his family." `Abida replied. "No doubt if I had a single hair of that it would have been dearer to me than the whole world and whatever is in it.
Hadith - 37
Narrated Anas:When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) got his head shaved, Abu-Talha was the first to take some of his hair.
Hadith - 38
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If a dog drinks from the utensil of anyone of you it is essential to wash it seven times.
Hadith - 39
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "A man saw a dog eating mud from (the severity of) thirst. So, that man took a shoe (and filled it) with water and kept on pouring the water for the dog till it quenched its thirst. So Allah approved of his deed and made him to enter Paradise.
Hadith - 40
And narrated Hamza bin 'Abdullah:My father said. "During the lifetime of Allah's Apostle, the dogs used to urinate, and pass through the mosques (come and go), nevertheless they never used to sprinkle water on it (urine of the dog).
Hadith - 41
Narrated `Adi bin Hatim:I asked the Prophet (about the hunting dogs) and he replied, "If you let loose (with Allah's name) your tamed dog after a game and it hunts it, you may eat it, but if the dog eats of (that game) then do not eat it because the dog has hunted it for itself." I further said, "Sometimes I send my dog for hunting and find another dog with it. He said, "Do not eat the game for you have mentioned Allah's name only on sending your dog and not the other dog.
Hadith - 42
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "A person is considered in prayer as long as he is waiting for the prayer in the mosque as long as he does not do Hadath." A non-Arab man asked, "O Abu Huraira! What is Hadath?" I replied, "It is the passing of wind (from the anus) (that is one of the types of Hadath).
Hadith - 43
Narrated `Abbad bin Tamim:My uncle said: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "One should not leave his prayer unless he hears sound or smells something.
Hadith - 44
Narrated `Ali:I used to get emotional urethral discharges frequently and felt shy to ask Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) about it. So I requested Al-Miqdad bin Al-Aswad to ask (the Prophet (ﷺ) ) about it. Al-Miqdad asked him and he replied, "One has to perform ablution (after it).
Hadith - 45
Narrated Zaid bin Khalid:I asked `Uthman bin `Affan about a person who engaged in intercourse but did no discharge. `Uthman replied, "He should perform ablution like the one for an ordinary prayer but he must wash his penis." `Uthman added, "I heard it from Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)." I asked `Ali, Az-Zubair, Talha and Ubai bin Ka`b about it and they, too, gave the same reply. (This order was canceled later on and taking a bath became necessary for such cases).
Hadith - 46
Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) sent for a Ansari man who came with water dropping from his head. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Perhaps we have forced you to hurry up, haven't we?" The Ansari replied, "Yes." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) further said, "If you are forced to hurry up (during intercourse) or you do not discharge then ablution is due on you (This order was canceled later on, i.e. one has to take a bath).
Hadith - 47
Narrated Usama bin Zaid:"When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) departed from `Arafat, he turned towards a mountain pass where he answered the call of nature. (After he had finished) I poured water and he performed ablution and then I said to him, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Will you offer the prayer?" He replied, "The Musalla (place of the prayer) is ahead of you (in Al-Muzdalifa).
Hadith - 48
Narrated Al-Mughira bin Shu`ba:I was in the company of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) on one of the journeys and he went out to answer the call of nature (and after he finished) I poured water and he performed ablution; he washed his face, forearms and passed his wet hand over his head and over the two Khuff (socks made from thick fabric or leather).
Hadith - 49
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Abbas:That he stayed overnight in the house of Maimuna the wife of the Prophet, his aunt. He added : I lay on the bed (cushion transversally) while Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and his wife lay in the lengthwise direction of the cushion. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) slept till the middle of the night, either a bit before or a bit after it and then woke up, rubbing the traces of sleep off his face with his hands. He then, recited the last ten verses of Sura Al-`Imran, got up and went to a hanging water-skin. He then Performed the ablution from it and it was a perfect ablution, and then stood up to offer the prayer. I, too, got up and did as the Prophet had done. Then I went and stood by his side. He placed his right hand on my head and caught my right ear and twisted it. He prayed two rak`at then two rak`at and two rak`at and then two rak`at and then two rak`at and then two rak`at (separately six times), and finally one rak`a (the witr). Then he lay down again in the bed till the Mu'adh-dhin came to him where upon the Prophet (ﷺ) got up, offered a two light rak`at prayer and went out and led the Fajr prayer.
Hadith - 50
Narrated Asma' bint Abu Bakr:I came to `Aisha the wife of the Prophet (ﷺ) during the solar eclipse. The people were standing and offering the prayer and she was also praying. I asked her, "What is wrong with the people?" She beckoned with her hand towards the sky and said, "Subhan Allah." I asked her, "Is there a sign?" She pointed out, "Yes." So I, too, stood for the prayer till I fell unconscious and later on I poured water on my head. After the prayer, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) praised and glorified Allah and said, "Just now I have seen something which I never saw before at this place of mine, including Paradise and Hell. I have been inspired (and have understood) that you will be put to trials in your graves and these trials will be like the trials of Ad-Dajjal, or nearly like it (the sub narrator is not sure of what Asma' said). Angels will come to every one of you and ask, 'What do you know about this man?' A believer will reply, 'He is Muhammad, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) , and he came to us with self-evident truth and guidance. So we accepted his teaching, believed and followed him.' Then the angels will say to him to sleep in peace as they have come to know that he was a believer. On the other hand a hypocrite or a doubtful person will reply, 'I do not know but heard the people saying something and so I said the same.
Hadith - 51
Narrated Yahya Al-Mazini:A person asked `Abdullah bin Zaid who was the grandfather of `Amr bin Yahya, "Can you show me how Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to perform ablution?" `Abdullah bin Zaid replied in the affirmative and asked for water. He poured it on his hands and washed them twice, then he rinsed his mouth thrice and washed his nose with water thrice by putting water in it and blowing it out. He washed his face thrice and after that he washed his forearms up to the elbows twice and then passed his wet hands over his head from its front to its back and vice versa (beginning from the front and taking them to the back of his head up to the nape of the neck and then brought them to the front again from where he had started) and washed his feet (up to the ankles).
Hadith - 52
Narrated `Amr:My father saw `Amr bin Abi Hasan asking `Abdullah bin Zaid about the ablution of the Prophet. `Abdullah bin Zaid asked for earthenware pot containing water and in front of them performed ablution like that of the Prophet (ﷺ) . He poured water from the pot over his hand and washed his hands thrice and then he put his hands in the pot and rinsed his mouth and washed his nose by putting water in it and then blowing it out with three handfuls of water. Again he put his hand in the water and washed his face thrice and washed his forearms up to the elbows twice; and then put his hands in the water and then passed them over his head by bringing them to the front and then to the rear of the head once, and then he washed his feet up to the ankles.
Hadith - 53
Narrated Abu Juhaifa:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) came to us at noon and water for ablution was brought to him. After he had performed ablution, the remaining water was taken by the people and they started smearing their bodies with it (as a blessed thing). The Prophet (ﷺ) offered two rak`at of the Zuhr prayer and then two rak`at of the `Asr prayer while a short spear (or stick) was there (as a Sutra) in front of him.
Hadith - 54
Abu Musa said:The Prophet asked for a tumbler containing water and washed both his hands and face in it and then threw a mouthful of water in the tumbler and said to both of us (Abu Musa and Bilal), "Drink from the tumbler and pour some of its water on your faces and chests.
Hadith - 55
Narrated Ibn Shihab:Mahmud bin Ar-Rabi` who was the person on whose face the Prophet (ﷺ) had ejected a mouthful of water from his family's well while he was a boy, and `Urwa (on the authority of Al-Miswar and others) who testified each other, said, "Whenever the Prophet (ﷺ) , performed ablution, his companions were nearly fighting for the remains of the water.
Hadith - 56
Narrated As-Sa'ib bin Yazid:My aunt took me to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! This son of my sister has got a disease in his legs." So he passed his hands on my head and prayed for Allah's blessings for me; then he performed ablution and I drank from the remaining water. I stood behind him and saw the seal of Prophethood between his shoulders, and it was like the "Zir-al-Hijla" (means the button of a small tent, but some said 'egg of a partridge.' etc).
Hadith - 57
Narrated `Amr bin Yahya:(on the authority of his father) `Abdullah bin Zaid poured water on his hands from a utensil containing water and washed them and then with one handful of water he rinsed his mouth and cleaned his nose by putting water in it and then blowing it out. He repeated it thrice. He, then, washed his hands and forearms up to the elbows twice and passed wet hands over his head, both forwards and backwards, and washed his feet up to the ankles and said, "This is the ablution of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ).
Hadith - 58
Narrated `Amr bin Yahya:My father said, "I saw `Amr bin Abi Hasan asking `Abdullah bin Zaid about the ablution of the Prophet. `Abdullah bin Zaid asked for an earthenware pot containing water and performed ablution in front of them. He poured water over his hands and washed them thrice. Then he put his (right) hand in the pot and rinsed his mouth and washed his nose by putting water in it and then blowing it out thrice with three handfuls of water Again he put his hand in the water and washed his face thrice. After that he put his hand in the pot and washed his forearms up to the elbows twice and then again put his hand in the water and passed wet hands over his head by bringing them to the front and then to the back and once more he put his hand in the pot and washed his feet (up to the ankles.)" Narrated Wuhaib: That he (the Prophet (ﷺ) in narration 191 above) had passed his wet hands on the head once only.
Hadith - 59
Narrated 'Abdullah bin 'Umar:"During the lifetime of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) men and women used to perform ablution together.
Hadith - 60
Narrated Jabir:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) came to visit me while I was sick and unconscious. He performed ablution and sprinkled the remaining water on me and I became conscious and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! To whom will my inheritance go as I have neither ascendants nor descendants?" Then the Divine verses regarding Fara'id (inheritance) were revealed.
Hadith - 61
Narrated Anas:It was the time for prayer, and those whose houses were near got up and went to their people (to perform ablution), and there remained some people (sitting). Then a painted stove pot (Mikhdab) containing water was brought to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)s The pot was small, not broad enough for one to spread one's hand in; yet all the people performed ablution. (The sub narrator said, "We asked Anas, 'How many persons were you?' Anas replied 'We were eighty or more"). (It was one of the miracles of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ).
Hadith - 62
Narrated Abu Musa:Once the Prophet (ﷺ) asked for a tumbler containing water. He washed his hands and face in it and also threw a mouthful of water in it.
Hadith - 63
Narrated `Abdullah bin Zaid:Once Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) came to us and we brought out water for him in a brass pot. He performed ablution thus: He washed his face thrice, and his forearms to the elbows twice, then passed his wet hands lightly over the head from front to rear and brought them to front again and washed his feet (up to the ankles).
Hadith - 64
Narrated `Aisha:When the ailment of the Prophet (ﷺ) became aggravated and his disease became severe, he asked his wives to permit him to be nursed (treated) in my house. So they gave him the permission. Then the Prophet came (to my house) with the support of two men, and his legs were dragging on the ground, between `Abbas, and another man." 'Ubaidullah (the sub narrator) said, "I informed `Abdullah bin `Abbas of what `Aisha said. Ibn `Abbas said: 'Do you know who was the other man?' I replied in the negative. Ibn `Abbas said, 'He was `Ali (bin Abi Talib)." `Aisha further said, "When the Prophet (ﷺ) came to my house and his sickness became aggravated he ordered us to pour seven skins full of water on him, so that he might give some advice to the people. So he was seated in a Mikhdab (brass tub) belonging to Hafsa, the wife of the Prophet. Then, all of us started pouring water on him from the water skins till he beckoned to us to stop and that we have done (what he wanted us to do). After that he went out to the people.
Hadith - 65
Narrated `Amr bin Yahya:(on the authority of his father) My uncle used to perform ablution extravagantly and once he asked `Abdullah bin Zaid to tell him how he had seen the Prophet (ﷺ) performing ablution. He asked for an earthenware pot containing water, and poured water from it on his hands and washed them thrice, and then put his hand in the earthenware pot and rinsed his mouth and washed his nose by putting water in it and then blowing it out thrice with one handful of water; he again put his hand in the water and took a handful of water and washed his face thrice, then washed his hands up to the elbows twice, and took water with his hand, and passed it over his head from front to back and then from back to front, and then washed his feet (up to the ankles) and said, "I saw the Prophet (ﷺ) performing ablution in that way.
Hadith - 66
Narrated Thabit:Anas said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) asked for water and a tumbler with a broad base and no so deep, containing a small quantity of water, was brought to him whereby he put his fingers in it." Anas further said, ' noticed the water springing out from amongst his fingers." Anas added, ' estimated that the people who performed ablution with it numbered between seventy to eighty.
Hadith - 67
Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to take a bath with one Sa` up to five Mudds (1 Sa` = [??] Mudds) of water and used to perform ablution with one Mudd of water.
Hadith - 68
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:Sa`d bin Abi Waqqas said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) passed wet hands over his Khuffs (socks made from thick fabric or leather)." `Abdullah bin `Umar asked `Umar about it. `Umar replied in the affirmative and added, "Whenever Sa`d narrates a Hadith from the Prophet, there is no need to ask anyone else about it.
Hadith - 69
Narrated Al-Mughira bin Shu`ba:Once Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) went out to answer the call of nature and I followed him with a tumbler containing water, and when he finished, I poured water and he performed ablution and passed wet hands over his Khuffs (socks made from thick fabric or leather).
Hadith - 70
Narrated Ja`far bin `Amr bin Umaiya Ad-Damri:My father said, "I saw the Prophet (ﷺ) passing wet hands over his Khuffs (socks made from thick fabric or leather).
Hadith - 71
Narrated Ja`far bin `Amr:My father said, "I saw the Prophet (ﷺ) passing wet hands over his turban and Khuffs (socks made from thick fabric or leather).
Hadith - 72
Narrated `Urwa bin Al-Mughira:My father said, "Once I was in the company of the Prophet (ﷺ) on a journey and I dashed to take off his Khuffs (socks made from thick fabric or leather). He ordered me to leave them as he had put them after performing ablution. So he passed wet hands over them.
Hadith - 73
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Abbas:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) ate a piece of cooked mutton from the shoulder region and prayed without repeating ablution.
Hadith - 74
Narrated Ja`far bin `Amr bin Umaiya:My father said, "I saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) taking a piece of (cooked) mutton from the shoulder region and then he was called for prayer. He put his knife down and prayed without repeating ablution.
Hadith - 75
Narrated Suwaid bin Al-Nu`man:In the year of the conquest of Khaibar I went with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) till we reached Sahba, a place near Khaibar, where Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) offered the `Asr prayer and asked for food. Nothing but saweeq was brought. He ordered it to be moistened with water. He and all of us ate it and the Prophet (ﷺ) got up for the evening prayer (Maghrib prayer), rinsed his mouth with water and we did the same, and he then prayed without repeating the ablution.
Hadith - 76
Narrated Maimuna:The Prophet (ﷺ) ate (a piece of) mutton from the shoulder region and then prayed without repeating the ablution.
Hadith - 77
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) drank milk, rinsed his mouth and said, "It has fat.
Hadith - 78
Narrated `Aisha:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If anyone of you feels drowsy while praying he should go to bed (sleep) till his slumber is over because in praying while drowsy one does not know whether one is asking for forgiveness or for a bad thing for oneself.
Hadith - 79
Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If anyone of you feels drowsy while praying, he should sleep till he understands what he is saying (reciting).
Hadith - 80
Narrated `Amr bin `Amir:Anas said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) used to perform ablution for every prayer." I asked Anas, "What did you used to do?' Anas replied, "We used to pray with the same ablution until we break it with Hadath.
Hadith - 81
Narrated Suwaid bin Nu`man:In the year of the conquest of Khaibar I went with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) till we reached As-Sahba' where Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) led the `Asr prayer and asked for the food. Nothing but saweeq was brought and we ate it and drank (water). The Prophet (ﷺ) got up for the (Maghrib) Prayer, rinsed his mouth with water and then led the prayer without repeating the ablution.
Hadith - 82
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:Once the Prophet, while passing through one of the graveyards of Medina or Mecca heard the voices of two persons who were being tortured in their graves. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "These two persons are being tortured not for a major sin (to avoid)." The Prophet (ﷺ) then added, "Yes! (they are being tortured for a major sin). Indeed, one of them never saved himself from being soiled with his urine while the other used to go about with calumnies (to make enmity between friends). The Prophet (ﷺ) then asked for a green leaf of a date-palm tree, broke it into two pieces and put one on each grave. On being asked why he had done so, he replied, "I hope that their torture might be lessened, till these get dried.
Hadith - 83
Narrated Anas bin Malik:Whenever the Prophet (ﷺ) went to answer the call of nature, I used to bring water with which he used to clean his private parts.
Hadith - 84
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) once passed by two graves and said, "These two persons are being tortured not for a major sin (to avoid). One of them never saved himself from being soiled with his urine, while the other used to go about with calumnies (to make enmity between friends)." The Prophet (ﷺ) then took a green leaf of a date-palm tree, split it into (pieces) and fixed one on each grave. They said, "O Allah's Apostle! Why have you done so?" He replied, "I hope that their punishment might be lessened till these (the pieces of the leaf) become dry." (See the footnote of Hadith).
Hadith - 85
Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) saw a Bedouin making water in the mosque and told the people not to disturb him. When he finished, the Prophet (ﷺ) asked for some water and poured it over (the urine).
Hadith - 86
Narrated Abu Huraira:A Bedouin stood up and started making water in the mosque. The people caught him but the Prophet (ﷺ) ordered them to leave him and to pour a bucket or a tumbler of water over the place where he had passed the urine. The Prophet (ﷺ) then said, "You have been sent to make things easy and not to make them difficult.
Hadith - 87
Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) said as above.
Hadith - 88
Narrated `Aisha:(the mother of faithful believers) A child was brought to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and it urinated on the garment of the Prophet. The Prophet (ﷺ) asked for water and poured it over the soiled place.
Hadith - 89
Narrated Um Qais bint Mihsin:I brought my young son, who had not started eating (ordinary food) to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) who took him and made him sit in his lap. The child urinated on the garment of the Prophet, so he asked for water and poured it over the soiled (area) and did not wash it.
Hadith - 90
Narrated Hudhaifa:Once the Prophet (ﷺ) went to the dumps of some people and passed urine while standing. He then asked for water and so I brought it to him and he performed ablution.
Hadith - 91
Narrated Hudhaifa':The Prophet (ﷺ) and I walked till we reached the dumps of some people. He stood, as any one of you stands, behind a wall and urinated. I went away, but he beckoned me to come. So I approached him and stood near his back till he finished.
Hadith - 92
Narrated Abu Wail:Abu Musa Al-Ash`ari used to lay great stress on the question of urination and he used to say, "If anyone from Bani Israel happened to soil his clothes with urine, he used to cut that portion away." Hearing that, Hudhaifa said to Abu Wail, "I wish he (Abu Musa) didn't (lay great stress on that matter)." Hudhaifa added, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) went to the dumps of some people and urinated while standing.
Hadith - 93
Narrated Asma':A woman came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said, "If anyone of us gets menses in her clothes then what should she do?" He replied, "She should (take hold of the soiled place), rub it and put it in the water and rub it in order to remove the traces of blood and then pour water over it. Then she can pray in it.
Hadith - 94
Narrated `Aisha:Fatima bint Abi Hubaish came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) I get persistent bleeding from the uterus and do not become clean. Shall I give up my prayers?" Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) replied, "No, because it is from a blood vessel and not the menses. So when your real menses begins give up your prayers and when it has finished wash off the blood (take a bath) and offer your prayers." Hisham (the sub narrator) narrated that his father had also said, (the Prophet (ﷺ) told her): "Perform ablution for every prayer till the time of the next period comes.
Hadith - 95
Narrated `Aisha:I used to wash the traces of Janaba (semen) from the clothes of the Prophet (ﷺ) and he used to go for prayers while traces of water were still on it (water spots were still visible).
Hadith - 96
Narrated Sulaiman bin Yasar:I asked `Aisha about the clothes soiled with semen. She replied, "I used to wash it off the clothes of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and he would go for the prayer while water spots were still visible.
Hadith - 97
Narrated `Amr bin Maimun:I heard Sulaiman bin Yasar talking about the clothes soiled with semen. He said that `Aisha had said, "I used to wash it off the clothes of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and he would go for the prayers while water spots were still visible on them.
Hadith - 98
Narrated `Aishah:I used to wash the semen off the clothes of the Prophet (ﷺ) and even then I used to notice one or more spots on them.
Hadith - 99
Narrated Abu Qilaba:Anas said, "Some people of `Ukl or `Uraina tribe came to Medina and its climate did not suit them. So the Prophet (ﷺ) ordered them to go to the herd of (Milch) camels and to drink their milk and urine (as a medicine). So they went as directed and after they became healthy, they killed the shepherd of the Prophet and drove away all the camels. The news reached the Prophet (ﷺ) early in the morning and he sent (men) in their pursuit and they were captured and brought at noon. He then ordered to cut their hands and feet (and it was done), and their eyes were branded with heated pieces of iron, They were put in 'Al-Harra' and when they asked for water, no water was given to them." Abu Qilaba said, "Those people committed theft and murder, became infidels after embracing Islam and fought against Allah and His Apostle.
Hadith - 100
Narrated Anas:Prior to the construction of the mosque, the Prophet (ﷺ) offered the prayers at sheep-folds.
Hadith - 101
Narrated Maimuna:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was asked regarding ghee (cooking butter) in which a mouse had fallen. He said, "Take out the mouse and throw away the ghee around it and use the rest.
Hadith - 102
Narrated Maimuna:The Prophet (ﷺ) was asked regarding ghee in which a mouse had fallen. He said, "Take out the mouse and throw away the ghee around it (and use the rest).
Hadith - 103
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "A wound which a Muslim receives in Allah's cause will appear on the Day of Resurrection as it was at the time of infliction; blood will be flowing from the wound and its color will be that of the blood but will smell like musk.
Hadith - 104
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "We (Muslims) are the last (people to come in the world) but (will be) the foremost (on the Day of Resurrection).
Hadith - 105
The same narrator said that the Prophet (ﷺ) had said: "You should not pass urine in stagnant water which is not flowing then (you may need to) wash in it.
Hadith - 106
Narrated `Abdullah:While Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was prostrating (as stated below). Narrated `Abdullah bin Mas`ud: Once the Prophet (ﷺ) was offering prayers at the Ka`ba. Abu Jahl was sitting with some of his companions. One of them said to the others, "Who amongst you will bring the Abdominal contents (intestines, etc.) of a camel of Bani so and so and put it on the back of Muhammad, when he prostrates?" The most unfortunate of them got up and brought it. He waited till the Prophet (ﷺ) prostrated and then placed it on his back between his shoulders. I was watching but could not do any thing. I wish I had some people with me to hold out against them. They started laughing and falling on one another. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was in prostration and he did not lift his head up till Fatima (Prophet's daughter) came and threw that (camel's Abdominal contents) away from his back. He raised his head and said thrice, "O Allah! Punish Quraish." So it was hard for Abu Jahl and his companions when the Prophet invoked Allah against them as they had a conviction that the prayers and invocations were accepted in this city (Mecca). The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O Allah! Punish Abu Jahl, `Utba bin Rabi`a, Shaiba bin Rabi`a, Al-Walid bin `Utba, Umaiya bin Khalaf, and `Uqba bin Al Mu'it [??] (and he mentioned the seventh whose name I cannot recall). By Allah in Whose Hands my life is, I saw the dead bodies of those persons who were counted by Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) in the Qalib (one of the wells) of Badr.
Hadith - 107
Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) once spat in his clothes.
Hadith - 108
Narrated Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "All drinks that produce intoxication are Haram (forbidden to drink).
Hadith - 109
Narrated Abu Hazim:Sahl bin Sa`d As-Sa`idi, was asked by the people, "With what was the wound of the Prophet (ﷺ) treated? Sahl replied, "None remains among the people living who knows that better than I. `Ali [??] used to bring water in his shield and Fatima used to wash the blood off his face. Then straw mat was burnt and the wound was filled with it.
Hadith - 110
Narrated Abu Burda:My father said, "I came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and saw him carrying a Siwak in his hand and cleansing his teeth, saying, 'U' U'," as if he was retching while the Siwak was in his mouth.
Hadith - 111
Narrated Hudhaifa:Whenever the Prophet (ﷺ) got up at night, he used to clean his mouth with Siwak.
Hadith - 112
Narrated Ibn 'Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I dreamt that I was cleaning my teeth with a Siwak and two persons came to me. One of them was older than the other and I gave the Siwak to the younger. I was told that I should give it to the older and so I did.
Hadith - 113
Narrated Al-Bara 'bin `Azib:The Prophet (ﷺ) said to me, "Whenever you go to bed perform ablution like that for the prayer, lie or your right side and say, "Allahumma aslamtu wajhi ilaika, wa fauwadtu `Amri ilaika, wa alja'tu Zahri ilaika raghbatan wa rahbatan ilaika. La Malja'a wa la manja minka illa ilaika. Allahumma amantu bikitabika-l-ladhi anzalta wa bina-biyika-l ladhi arsalta" (O Allah! I surrender to You and entrust all my affairs to You and depend upon You for Your Blessings both with hope and fear of You. There is no fleeing from You, and there is no place of protection and safety except with You O Allah! I believe in Your Book (the Qur'an) which You have revealed and in Your Prophet (Muhammad) whom You have sent). Then if you die on that very night, you will die with faith (i.e. or the religion of Islam). Let the aforesaid words be your last utterance (before sleep)." I repeated it before the Prophet (ﷺ) and when I reached "Allahumma amantu bikitabika-l-ladhi anzalta (O Allah I believe in Your Book which You have revealed)." I said, "Wa-rasulika (and your Apostle)." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "No, (but say): 'Wanabiyika-l-ladhi arsalta (Your Prophet whom You have sent), instead.
