Hadith - 1
Narrated `Aisha and Ibn `Abbas: The Prophet (ﷺ) remained in Mecca for ten years, during which the Qur'an used to be revealed to him; and he stayed in Medina for ten years.
Hadith - 2
Narrated Abu `Uthman: I was informed that Gabriel came to the Prophet (ﷺ) while Um Salama was with him. Gabriel started talking (to the Prophet). Then the Prophet (ﷺ) asked Um Salama, "Who is this?" She replied, "He is Dihya (al-Kalbi)." When Gabriel had left, Um Salama said, "By Allah, I did not take him for anybody other than him (i.e. Dihya) till I heard the sermon of the Prophet (ﷺ) wherein he informed about the news of Gabriel." The subnarrator asked Abu `Uthman: From whom have you heard that? Abu `Uthman said: From Usama bin Zaid.
Hadith - 3
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Every Prophet was given miracles because of which people believed, but what I have been given is Divine Inspiration which Allah has revealed to me. So I hope that my followers will outnumber the followers of the other Prophets on the Day of Resurrection."
Hadith - 4
Narrated Anas bin Malik: Allah sent down His Divine Inspiration to His Apostle continuously and abundantly during the period preceding his death till He took him unto Him. That was the period of the greatest part of revelation; and Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) died after that.
Hadith - 5
Narrated Jundub: Once the Prophet (ﷺ) fell ill and did not offer the night prayer (Tahajjud prayer) for a night or two. A woman (the wife of Abu Lahab) came to him and said, "O Muhammad! I do not see but that your Satan has left you." Then Allah revealed (Surat-Ad-Duha): 'By the fore-noon, and by the night when it darkens (or is still); Your Lord has not forsaken you, nor hated you.' (Surah 93)
Hadith - 6
Narrated Anas bin Malik: (The Caliph) `Uthman ordered Zaid bin Thabit, Sa`id bin Al-As, `Abdullah bin Az-Zubair and `Abdur-Rahman bin Al-Harith bin Hisham to write the Qur'an in the form of a book (Mushafs) and said to them, "In case you disagree with Zaid bin Thabit (Al-Ansari) regarding any dialectic Arabic utterance of the Qur'an, then write it in the dialect of Quraish, for the Qur'an was revealed in this dialect." So they did it.
Hadith - 7
Narrated Safwan bin Ya`la bin Umaiya: Ya`la used to say, "I wish I could see Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) at the time he is being inspired Divinely." When the Prophet (ﷺ) was at Al-Ji'rana and was shaded by a garment hanging over him and some of his companions were with him, a man perfumed with scent came and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! What is your opinion regarding a man who assumes Ihram and puts on a cloak after perfuming his body with scent?" The Prophet (ﷺ) waited for a while, and then the Divine Inspiration descended upon him. `Umar pointed out to Ya`la, telling him to come. Ya`la came and pushed his head (underneath the screen which was covering the Prophet (ﷺ)) and behold! The Prophet's face was red and he kept on breathing heavily for a while and then he was relieved. Thereupon he said, "Where is the questioner who asked me about `Umra a while ago?" The man was sought and then was brought before the Prophet (ﷺ) who said (to him), "As regards the scent which you perfumed your body with, you must wash it off thrice, and as for your cloak, you must take it off; and then perform in your `Umra all those things which you perform in Hajj."
Hadith - 8
Narrated Zaid bin Thabit: Abu Bakr As-Siddiq sent for me when the people of Yamama had been killed (i.e., a number of the Prophet's Companions who fought against Musailima). (I went to him) and found `Umar bin Al-Khattab sitting with him. Abu Bakr then said (to me), "`Umar has come to me and said: "Casualties were heavy among the Qurra' of the Qur'an (i.e. those who knew the Qur'an by heart) on the day of the Battle of Yamama, and I am afraid that more heavy casualties may take place among the Qurra' on other battlefields, whereby a large part of the Qur'an may be lost. Therefore I suggest you (Abu Bakr) order that the Qur'an be collected." I said to `Umar, "How can you do something which Allah's Apostle did not do?" `Umar said, "By Allah, that is a good project." `Umar kept on urging me to accept his proposal till Allah opened my chest for it and I began to realize the good in the idea which `Umar had realized." Then Abu Bakr said (to me), 'You are a wise young man and we do not have any suspicion about you, and you used to write the Divine Inspiration for Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). So you should search for (the fragmentary scripts of) the Qur'an and collect it in one book." By Allah, if they had ordered me to shift one of the mountains, it would not have been heavier for me than this ordering me to collect the Qur'an. Then I said to Abu Bakr, "How will you do something which Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) did not do?" Abu Bakr replied, "By Allah, it is a good project." Abu Bakr kept on urging me to accept his idea until Allah opened my chest for what He had opened the chests of Abu Bakr and `Umar. So I started looking for the Qur'an and collecting it from (what was written on) palm stalks, thin white stones and also from the men who knew it by heart, till I found the last Verse of Surat at-Tauba (Repentance) with Abi Khuzaima Al-Ansari, and I did not find it with anybody other than him. The Verse is: 'Verily there has come unto you an Apostle (Muhammad) from amongst yourselves. It grieves him that you should receive any injury or difficulty...(till the end of Surat-Baraa' (at-Tauba) (Surah 9: Ayat 128-129)). Then the complete manuscripts (copy) of the Qur'an remained with Abu Bakr till he died, then with `Umar till the end of his life, and then with Hafsa, the daughter of `Umar.
Hadith - 9
Narrated Anas bin Malik: Hudhaifa bin Al-Yaman came to `Uthman at the time when the people of Sham and the people of Iraq were waging war to conquer Arminya and Adharbijan. Hudhaifa was afraid of their (the people of Sham and Iraq) differences in the recitation of the Qur'an, so he said to `Uthman, "O chief of the Believers! Save this nation before they differ about the Book (Qur'an) as Jews and the Christians did before." So, `Uthman sent a message to Hafsa saying, "Send us the manuscripts of the Qur'an so that we may compile the Qur'anic materials in perfect copies and return the manuscripts to you." Hafsa sent it to `Uthman. `Uthman then ordered Zaid bin Thabit, `Abdullah bin Az-Zubair, Sa`id bin Al-As and `Abdur-Rahman bin Harith bin Hisham to rewrite the manuscripts in perfect copies. `Uthman said to the three Quraishi men, "In case you disagree with Zaid bin Thabit on any point in the Qur'an, then write it in the dialect of Quraish, the Qur'an was revealed in their tongue." They did so, and when they had written many copies, `Uthman returned the original manuscripts to Hafsa. `Uthman sent to every Muslim province one copy of what they had copied, and ordered that all the other Qur'anic materials, whether written in fragmentary manuscripts or whole copies, be burnt.
Hadith - 10
Zaid bin Thabit added, "A verse from Surat Ahzab was missed by me when we copied the Qur'an and I used to hear Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) reciting it. So we searched for it and found it with Khuza`ima bin Thabit Al-Ansari. (That Verse was): 'Among the Believers are men who have been true in their covenant with Allah.' (Surah 33: Ayah 23)
Hadith - 11
Narrated Zaid bin Thabit: Abu Bakr sent for me and said, "You used to write the Divine Revelations for Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). So you should search for (the Qur'an and collect) it." I started searching for the Qur'an till I found the last two Verses of Surat at-Tauba with Abi Khuza`ima Al-Ansari and I could not find these Verses with anybody other than him. (They were): 'Verily there has come unto you an Apostle (Muhammad) from amongst yourselves. It grieves him that you should receive any injury or difficulty.' (Surah 9: Ayat 128-129)
Hadith - 12
Narrated Al-Bara: There was revealed: 'Not equal are those believers who sit (at home) and those who strive and fight in the Cause of Allah.' (Surah 4: Ayah 95) The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Call Zaid for me and let him bring the board, the inkpot and the scapula bone (or the scapula bone and the ink pot)."' Then he said, "Write: 'Not equal are those Believers who sit...', and at that time `Amr bin Um Maktum, the blind man was sitting behind the Prophet (ﷺ). He said, "O Allah's Apostle! What is your order for me (as regards the above Verse) as I am a blind man?" So, instead of the above Verse, the following Verse was revealed: 'Not equal are those believers who sit (at home) except those who are disabled (by injury or are blind or lame etc) and those who strive and fight in the cause of Allah.' (Surah 4: Ayah 95)
Hadith - 13
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Abbas: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Gabriel recited the Qur'an to me in one way. Then I requested him (to read it in another way), and continued asking him to recite it in other ways, and he recited it in several ways, till he ultimately recited it in seven different ways."
Hadith - 14
Narrated `Umar bin Al-Khattab: I heard Hisham bin Hakim reciting Surat Al-Furqan during the lifetime of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and I listened to his recitation and noticed that he recited in several different ways which Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had not taught me. I was about to jump over him during his prayer, but I controlled my temper, and when he had completed his prayer, I put his upper garment around his neck and seized him by it and said, "Who taught you this Sura which I heard you reciting?" He replied, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) taught it to me." I said, "You have told a lie, for Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) has taught it to me in a different way from yours." So I dragged him to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and said (to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)), "I heard this person reciting Surat Al-Furqan in a way which you haven't taught me!" On that, Allah's Apostle said, "Release him, (O `Umar!) Recite, O Hisham!" Then he recited in the same way as I heard him reciting. Then Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "It was revealed in this way," and added, "Recite, O `Umar!" I recited it as he had taught me. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) then said, "It was revealed in this way. This Qur'an has been revealed to be recited in seven different ways, so recite of it whichever (way) is easier for you (or read as much of it as may be easy for you)."
Hadith - 15
Narrated Yusuf bin Maahak: While I was with Aisha, the mother of the Believers, a person from Iraq came and asked, "What type of shroud is the best?" `Aisha said, "May Allah be merciful to you! What does it matter?" He said, "O mother of the Believers! Show me (the copy of) your Qur'an." She said, "Why?" He said, "In order to compile and arrange the Qur'an according to it, for people recite it with its Suras not in proper order." `Aisha said, "What does it matter which part of it you read first? (Be informed) that the first thing that was revealed thereof was a Sura from Al-Mufassal, and in it was mentioned Paradise and the Fire. When the people embraced Islam, the Verses regarding legal and illegal things were revealed. If the first thing to be revealed was: 'Do not drink alcoholic drinks,' people would have said, 'We will never leave alcoholic drinks,' and if there had been revealed, 'Do not commit illegal sexual intercourse,' they would have said, 'We will never give up illegal sexual intercourse.' While I was a young girl of playing age, the following Verse was revealed in Mecca to Muhammad: 'Nay! But the Hour is their appointed time (for their full recompense), and the Hour will be more grievous and more bitter.' (Surah 54: Ayah 46) Sura Al-Baqara (The Cow) and Surat An-Nisa (The Women) were revealed while I was with him." Then `Aisha took out the copy of the Qur'an for the man and dictated to him the Verses of the Suras (in their proper order).
Hadith - 16
Narrated `Abdullah bin Mas`ud: Surat Bani Israel, Al-Kahf (The Cave), Maryam, Taha, Al-Anbiya' (The prophets) are amongst my first earnings and my old property, and (in fact) they are my old property.
Hadith - 17
Narrated Al-Bara': I learnt 'Glorify the Name of your Lord the Most High' (Surat al-A'la, Number 87), before the Prophet (ﷺ) came (to Medina).
Hadith - 18
Narrated Shaqiq: `Abdullah said, "I learnt An-Naza'ir which the Prophet (ﷺ) used to recite in pairs in each rak`a." Then `Abdullah got up and Alqama accompanied him to his house, and when Alqama came out, we asked him (about those Suras). He said, "They are twenty Suras that start from the beginning of Al-Mufassal, according to the arrangement done by Ibn Mas`ud, and end with the Suras starting with Ha Mim, e.g. Ha Mim (the Smoke), and "About what they question one another?" (Surah 78: Ayah 1)
Hadith - 19
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: The Prophet (ﷺ) was the most generous person, and he used to become more so (generous) particularly in the month of Ramadan because Gabriel used to meet him every night of the month of Ramadan till it elapsed. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to recite the Qur'an for him. When Gabriel met him, he used to become more generous than the fast wind in doing good.
Hadith - 20
Narrated Abu Huraira: Gabriel used to repeat the recitation of the Qur'an with the Prophet (ﷺ) once a year, but he repeated it twice with him in the year he died. The Prophet (ﷺ) used to stay in I`tikaf for ten days every year (in the month of Ramadan), but in the year of his death, he stayed in I`tikaf for twenty days.
Hadith - 21
Narrated Masruq: `Abdullah bin `Amr mentioned `Abdullah bin Masud and said, "I shall ever love that man, for I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, 'Take (learn) the Qur'an from four: `Abdullah bin Masud, Salim, Mu`adh and Ubai bin Ka`b.'"
Hadith - 22
Narrated Shaqiq bin Salama: Once `Abdullah bin Mas`ud delivered a sermon before us and said, "By Allah, I learnt over seventy Suras direct from Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). By Allah, the companions of the Prophet (ﷺ) came to know that I am one of those who know Allah's Book best of all of them, yet I am not the best of them." Shaqiq added: I sat in his religious gathering and I did not hear anybody opposing him (in his speech).
Hadith - 23
Narrated 'Alqama: While we were in the city of Hims (in Syria), Ibn Mas`ud recited Surat Yusuf. A man said to him, "It was not revealed in this way." Then Ibn Mas`ud said, "I recited it in this way before Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and he confirmed my recitation by saying, 'Well done!'" Ibn Mas`ud detected the smell of wine from the man's mouth, so he said to him, "Aren't you ashamed of telling a lie about Allah's Book and (along with this) you drink alcoholic liquors too?" Then he lashed him according to the law.
Hadith - 24
Narrated `Abdullah (bin Mas`ud): By Allah other than Whom none has the right to be worshipped! There is no Sura revealed in Allah's Book but I know at what place it was revealed; and there is no Verse revealed in Allah's Book but I know about whom it was revealed. And if I know that there is somebody who knows Allah's Book better than I, and he is at a place that camels can reach, I would go to him.
Hadith - 25
Narrated Qatada: I asked Anas bin Malik: "Who collected the Qur'an at the time of the Prophet (ﷺ)?" He replied, "Four, all of whom were from the Ansar: Ubai bin Ka`b, Mu`adh bin Jabal, Zaid bin Thabit and Abu Zaid."
Hadith - 26
Narrated Anas bin Malik: When the Prophet (ﷺ) died, none had collected the Qur'an but four persons: Abu Ad-Darda', Mu`adh bin Jabal, Zaid bin Thabit and Abu Zaid. We were the inheritor (of Abu Zaid) as he had no offspring.
Hadith - 27
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: `Umar said, "'Ubai was the best of us in the recitation (of the Qur'an) yet we leave some of what he recites.' Ubai says, 'I have taken it from the mouth of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and will not leave for anything whatever.' But Allah said, "None of Our Revelations do We abrogate or cause to be forgotten but We substitute something better or similar." (Surah 2: Ayah 106)
Hadith - 28
Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Mu'alla: While I was praying, the Prophet (ﷺ) called me, but I did not respond to his call. Later, I said, "O Allah's Apostle! I was praying." He said, "Didn't Allah say: 'O you who believe! Give your response to Allah (by obeying Him) and to His Apostle when he calls you'?" (Surah 8: Ayah 24) He then said, "Shall I not teach you the most superior Surah in the Qur'an?" He said, "(It is), 'Praise be to Allah, the Lord of the worlds' (i.e., Surat Al-Fatiha) which consists of seven repeatedly recited Verses and the Magnificent Qur'an which was given to me."
Hadith - 29
Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri: While we were on one of our journeys, we dismounted at a place where a slave girl came and said, "The chief of this tribe has been stung by a scorpion and our men are not present; is there anybody among you who can treat him (by reciting something)?" Then one of our men went along with her though we did not think that he knew any such treatment. But he treated the chief by reciting something, and the sick man recovered, whereupon he gave him thirty sheep and gave us milk to drink (as a reward). When he returned, we asked our friend, "Did you know how to treat with the recitation of something?" He said, "No, but I treated him only with the recitation of the Mother of the Book (i.e., Al-Fatiha)." We said, "Do not say anything (about it) till we reach or ask the Prophet (ﷺ)." So when we reached Medina, we mentioned that to the Prophet (in order to know whether the sheep which we had taken were lawful to take or not). The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "How did he come to know that it (Al-Fatiha) could be used for treatment? Distribute your reward and assign for me one share thereof as well."
Hadith - 30
Narrated Abu Mas'ud: Whoever recites two verses ... (text as in the following hadith).
Hadith - 31
Narrated Abu Mas'ud: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If somebody recited the last two Verses of Surat Al-Baqara at night, that will be sufficient for him."
Hadith - 32
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) ordered me to guard the Zakat revenue of Ramadan. Then somebody came to me and started stealing from the foodstuff. I caught him and said, "I will take you to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)!" Then Abu Huraira described the whole narration and said: That person said (to me), "(Please don't take me to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and I will tell you a few words by which Allah will benefit you.) When you go to your bed, recite Ayat-al-Kursi, (Surah 2: Ayah 255) for then there will be a guard from Allah who will protect you all night long, and Satan will not be able to come near you till dawn." (When the Prophet (ﷺ) heard the story) he said (to me), "He (who came to you at night) told you the truth although he is a liar; and it was Satan."
Hadith - 33
Narrated Al-Bara': A man was reciting Surat Al-Kahf and his horse was tied with two ropes beside him. A cloud came down and spread over that man, and it kept on coming closer and closer to him till his horse started jumping (as if afraid of something). When it was morning, the man came to the Prophet, and told him of that experience. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "That was As-Sakina (tranquility) which descended because of (the recitation of) the Qur'an."
Hadith - 34
Narrated Aslam: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was traveling on one of his journeys, and `Umar bin Al-Khattab was traveling along with him at night. `Umar asked him about something, but Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) did not answer him. He asked again, but he did not answer. He asked for the third time, but he did not answer. On that, `Umar said to himself, "May your mother lose you! You have asked Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) three times, but he did not answer at all!" `Umar said, "So I made my camel go fast till I was ahead of the people, and I was afraid that something might be revealed about me. After a little while, I heard a call maker calling me. I said, 'I was afraid that some Qur'anic Verse might be revealed about me.' So I went to Allah's Apostle and greeted him. He said, 'Tonight there has been revealed to me a Surah which is dearer to me than that on which the sun shines (i.e. the world).' Then he recited: 'Verily! We have given you (O Muhammad), a manifest victory.'" (Surat al-Fath, Surah 48 : Ayah 1)
Hadith - 35
Narrated Abu Sa'id Al-Khudri: A man heard another man reciting (Surat-Al-Ikhlas), 'Say He is Allah, (the) One,' (Surah 112: Ayah 1) repeatedly. The next morning he came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and informed him about it as if he thought that it was not enough to recite. On that, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "By Him in Whose Hand my life is, this Surah is equal to one-third of the Qur'an."
Hadith - 36
Narrated Abu Sa'id Al-Khudri: My brother, Qatada bin An-Nu'man said, "A man performed the night prayer late at night in the lifetime of the Prophet (ﷺ) and he read: 'Say: He is Allah, (the) One,' (Surah 112: Ayah 1) and read nothing besides that. The next morning a man went to the Prophet (ﷺ), and told him about that. The Prophet (ﷺ) replied the same as above.
Hadith - 37
Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri: The Prophet (ﷺ) said to his companions, "Is it difficult for any of you to recite one third of the Qur'an in one night?" This suggestion was difficult for them so they said, "Who among us has the power to do so, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)?" Allah's Apostle replied: "Allah (the) One, the Self-Sufficient Master Whom all creatures need,' (Surat Al-Ikhlas - 112: Ayah 1 to the End) is equal to one third of the Qur'an.
Hadith - 38
Narrated `Aisha: Whenever Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) became sick, he would recite Mu'awwidhat (Surat Al-Falaq and Surat An-Nas) and then blow his breath over his body. When he became seriously ill, I used to recite (these two Suras) and rub his hands over his body hoping for its blessings.
Hadith - 39
Narrated 'Aisha: Whenever the Prophet (ﷺ) went to bed every night, he used to cup his hands together and blow over it after reciting Surat Al-Ikhlas, Surat Al-Falaq and Surat An-Nas, and then rub his hands over whatever parts of his body he was able to rub, starting with his head, face and front of his body. He used to do that three times.
Hadith - 40
Narrated Usaid bin Hudair: That while he was reciting Surat Al-Baqara (The Cow) at night, and his horse was tied beside him, the horse was suddenly startled and troubled. When he stopped reciting, the horse became quiet, and when he started again, the horse was startled again. Then he stopped reciting and the horse became quiet too. He started reciting again and the horse was startled and troubled once again. Then he stopped reciting and his son, Yahya was beside the horse. He was afraid that the horse might trample on him. When he took the boy away and looked towards the sky, he could not see it. The next morning, he informed the Prophet who said, "Recite, O Ibn Hudair! Recite, O Ibn Hudair!" Ibn Hudair replied, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! My son, Yahya was near the horse and I was afraid that it might trample on him, so I looked towards the sky, and went to him. When I looked at the sky, I saw something like a cloud containing what looked like lamps, so I went out in order not to see it." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Do you know what that was?" Ibn Hudair replied, "No." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Those were Angels who came near to you for your voice, and if you had kept on reciting till dawn, it would have remained there till morning when people would have seen it as it would not have disappeared."
Hadith - 41
Narrated `Abdul `Aziz bin Rufai': Shaddad bin Ma'qil and I entered upon Ibn `Abbas. Shaddad bin Ma'qil asked him, "Did the Prophet (ﷺ) leave anything (besides the Qur'an)?" He replied, "He did not leave anything except what is between the two bindings (of the Qur'an)." Then we visited Muhammad bin Al-Hanafiyya and asked him (the same question). He replied, "The Prophet (ﷺ) did not leave except what is between the bindings (of the Qur'an)."
Hadith - 42
Narrated Abu Musa Al-Ash`ari: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The example of him (a believer) who recites the Qur'an is like that of a citron which tastes good and smells good. And he (a believer) who does not recite the Qur'an is like a date which is good in taste but has no smell. And the example of a dissolute wicked person who recites the Qur'an is like the Raihana (sweet basil) which smells good but tastes bitter. And the example of a dissolute wicked person who does not recite the Qur'an is like the colocynth which tastes bitter and has no smell."
Hadith - 43
Narrated Ibn `Umar: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Your life in comparison to the lifetime of the past nations is like the period between the time of `Asr prayer and sunset. Your example and the example of the Jews and Christians is that of a person who employed laborers and said to them, "Who will work for me till the middle of the day for one Qirat (a special weight)?" The Jews did. He then said, "Who will work for me from the middle of the day till the `Asr prayer for one Qirat each?" The Christians worked accordingly. Then you (Muslims) are working from the `Asr prayer till the Maghrib prayer for two Qirats each. They (the Jews and the Christians) said, 'We did more labor but took less wages.' He (Allah) said, 'Have I wronged you in your rights?' They replied, 'No.' Then He said, 'This is My Blessing which I give to whom I wish.'"
Hadith - 44
Narrated Talha: I asked `Abdullah bin Abi `Aufa, "Did the Prophet (ﷺ) make a will (to appoint his successor or bequeath wealth)?" He replied, "No." I said, "How is it prescribed then for the people to make wills, and they are ordered to do so while the Prophet (ﷺ) did not make any will?" He said, "He made a will wherein he recommended Allah's Book."
Hadith - 45
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Allah does not listen to a prophet as He listens to a prophet who recites the Qur'an in a pleasant tone." The companion of the sub-narrator (Abu Salama) said, "It means reciting it aloud."
Hadith - 46
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Allah does not listen to a prophet as He listens to a prophet who recites the Qur'an in a loud and pleasant tone." Sufyan said, "This saying means: a prophet who regards the Qur'an as something that makes him dispense with many worldly pleasures."
Hadith - 47
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Not to wish to be the like except of two men. A man whom Allah has given the knowledge of the Book and he recites it during the hours of the night, and a man whom Allah has given wealth, and he spends it in charity during the night and the hours of the day."
Hadith - 48
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Not to wish to be the like of except two men: A man whom Allah has taught the Qur'an and he recites it during the hours of the night and during the hours of the day, and his neighbor listens to him and says, 'I wish I had been given what has been given to so-and-so, so that I might do what he does.' And a man whom Allah has given wealth and he spends it on what is just and right, whereupon another man may say, 'I wish I had been given what so-and-so has been given, for then I would do what he does.'"
Hadith - 49
Narrated `Uthman: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The best among you (Muslims) are those who learn the Qur'an and teach it."
Hadith - 50
Narrated `Uthman bin `Affan: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The most superior among you (Muslims) are those who learn the Qur'an and teach it."
Hadith - 51
Narrated Sahl bin Sa`d: A lady came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and declared that she had decided to offer herself to Allah and His Apostle. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I am not in need of women." A man said (to the Prophet), "Please marry her to me." The Prophet (ﷺ) said (to him), "Give her a garment." The man said, "I cannot afford it." The Prophet said, "Give her anything, even if it were an iron ring." The man apologized again. The Prophet then asked him, "What do you know by heart of the Qur'an?" He replied, "I know such-and-such portion of the Qur'an (by heart)." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Then I marry her to you for that much of the Qur'an which you know by heart.""
Hadith - 52
Narrated Sahl bin Sa`d: A lady came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! I have come to you to offer myself to you." He raised his eyes and looked at her and then lowered his head. When the lady saw that he did not make any decision, she sat down. On that, a man from his companions got up and said, "O Allah's Apostle! If you are not in need of this woman, then marry her to me." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Do you have anything to offer her?" He replied, "No, by Allah, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)!" The Prophet (ﷺ) said to him, "Go to your family and see if you can find something." The man went and returned, saying, "No, by Allah, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! I have not found anything." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Try to find something, even if it is an iron ring." He went again and returned, saying, "No, by Allah, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), not even an iron ring, but I have this waist sheet of mine." The man had no upper garment, so he intended to give her half his waist sheet. So Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "What would she do with your waist sheet? If you wear it, she will have nothing of it over her body, and if she wears it, you will have nothing over your body." So that man sat for a long period and then got up, and Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saw him going away, so he ordered somebody to call him. When he came, the Prophet (ﷺ) asked him, "How much of the Qur'an do you know?" He replied, "I know such Surat and such Surat and such Surat," and went on counting it. The Prophet (ﷺ) asked him, "Can you recite it by heart?" He replied, "Yes." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Go, I have married this lady to you for the amount of the Qur'an you know by heart."
Hadith - 53
Narrated Ibn `Umar: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The example of the person who knows the Qur'an by heart is like the owner of tied camels. If he keeps them tied, he will control them, but if he releases them, they will run away."
Hadith - 54
Narrated `Abdullah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "It is a bad thing that some of you say, 'I have forgotten such-and-such verse of the Qur'an,' for indeed, he has been caused (by Allah) to forget it. So you must keep on reciting the Qur'an because it escapes from the hearts of men faster than camel do."
Hadith - 55
Narrated `Abdullah: I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying... (as above).
Hadith - 56
Narrated Abu Musa: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Commit yourself to the Qur'an, for by Him in whose Hand is my soul, it is surely more prone to break away than a camel in its bind."
Hadith - 57
Narrated `Abdullah bin Mughaffal: I saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) reciting Surat-al-Fath on his she-camel on the day of the Conquest of Mecca.
Hadith - 58
Narrated Sa`id bin Jubair: Those Suras which you people call the Mufassal, are the Muhkam. And Ibn `Abbas said, "Allah's Apostle died when I was a boy of ten years, and I had learnt the Muhkam (of the Qur'an)."
Hadith - 59
Narrated Sa`id bin Jubair: Ibn `Abbas said, "I have learnt all the Muhkam Suras during the life time of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)." I said to him, "What is meant by the Muhkam?" He replied, "The Mufassal."
Hadith - 60
Narrated Aisha: The Prophet (ﷺ) heard a man reciting the Qur'an in the mosque and said, "May Allah bestow His Mercy on him, as he has reminded me of such-and-such Verses of such a Surah."
Hadith - 61
Narrated Hisham: (The same Hadith as above, adding): which I missed (modifying the Verses).
Hadith - 62
Narrated Aisha: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) heard a man reciting the Qur'an at night, and said, "May Allah bestow His Mercy on him, as he has reminded me of such-and-such Verses of such-and-such Suras, which I was caused to forget."
Hadith - 63
Narrated `Abdullah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Why does anyone of the people say, 'I have forgotten such-and-such Verses (of the Qur'an)?' He, in fact, is caused (by Allah) to forget."
Hadith - 64
Narrated Abu Mas`ud al-Ansari: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If one recites the last two verses of Surat al-Baqarah at night, it is sufficient for him (for that night)."
Hadith - 65
Narrated `Umar bin Al-Khattab: I heard Hisham bin Hakim bin Hizam reciting Surat-al-Furqan during the lifetime of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), and I listened to his recitation and noticed that he recited it in several ways which Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had not taught me. So I was on the point of attacking him in the prayer, but I waited till he finished his prayer, and then I seized him by the collar and said, "Who taught you this Surah which I have heard you reciting?" He replied, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) taught it to me." I said, "You are telling a lie. By Allah! Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) taught me (in a different way) this very Surah which I have heard you reciting." So I took him, leading him to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! I heard this person reciting Surat-al-Furqan in a way that you did not teach me, and you have taught me Surat-al-Furqan." The Prophet said, "O Hisham, recite!" So he recited in the same way as I heard him recite it before. On that, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "It was revealed to be recited in this way." Then Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Recite, O `Umar!" So I recited it as he had taught me. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) then said, "It was revealed to be recited in this way." Allah's Apostle added, "The Qur'an has been revealed to be recited in several different ways, so recite of it that which is easier for you."
Hadith - 66
Narrated `Aisha: The Prophet (ﷺ) heard a reciter reciting the Qur'an in the mosque at night. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "May Allah bestow His Mercy on him, as he has reminded me of such-and-such Verses of such-and-such Suras, which I missed."
Hadith - 67
Narrated Abu Wa'il: We went to `Abdullah in the morning and a man said, "Yesterday I recited all the Mufassal Suras." On that, `Abdullah said, "That is very quick, and we have the (Prophet's) recitation, and I remember very well the recitation of those Suras which the Prophet (ﷺ) used to recite, and they were eighteen Suras from the Mufassal, and two Suras from the Suras that start with Ha Mim."
Hadith - 68
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: Regarding His (Allah's) Statement: 'Move not your tongue concerning (the Qur'an) to make haste therewith' (Surah 75: Ayah 16). And whenever Gabriel descended to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) with the Divine Inspiration, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to move his tongue and lips, and that used to be hard for him, and one could easily recognize that he was being inspired Divinely. So Allah revealed the Verse which occurs in the Surah starting with, "I do swear by the Day of Resurrection,' (Surah 75: Ayah 1) i.e. 'Move not your tongue concerning (the Qur'an) to make haste then with. It is for Us to collect it (in your mind) (O Muhammad) and give you the ability to recite it 'by heart.' (Surah 75: Ayat 16-17) which means: It is for us to collect it (in your mind) and give you the ability to recite it by heart. "And when We have recited it to you (O Muhammad) through Gabriel then follow you its recital" (Surah 75: Ayah 18) means: 'When We reveal it (the Qur'an) to you, Listen to it,' for then: It is for Us to explain it and make it clear to you' (Surah 75: Ayah 19) i.e. It is up to Us to explain it through your tongue. So, when Gabriel came to him, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) would listen to him attentively, and as soon as Gabriel left, he would recite the Revelations, as Allah had promised him."
Hadith - 69
Narrated Qatada: I asked Anas bin Malik about the recitation of the Prophet. He said, "He used to pray long (certain sounds) very much."
Hadith - 70
Narrated Qatada: Anas was asked, "How was the recitation (of the Qur'an) of the Prophet?" He replied, "It was characterized by the prolongation of certain sounds." He then recited: "In the Name of Allah, the Most Beneficent, the Most Merciful," prolonging the pronunciation of 'In the Name of Allah,' 'the most Beneficent,' and 'the Most Merciful'.
Hadith - 71
Narrated `Abdullah bin Mughaffal: I saw the Prophet (ﷺ) reciting (Qur'an) while he was riding on his she camel or camel which was moving, carrying him. He was reciting Surat Fath or part of Surat Fath very softly and in an attractive vibrating tone.
Hadith - 72
Narrated Abu Musa: That the Prophet (ﷺ) said to him, "O Abu Musa! You have been given one of the mazamir (sweet melodious voices) of the family of David."
Hadith - 73
Narrated `Abdullah: That the Prophet (ﷺ) said to him, "Recite the Qur'an to me." `Abdullah said, "Shall I recite (the Qur'an) to you while it has been revealed to you?" He said, "I like to hear it from others."
Hadith - 74
Narrated `Abdullah bin Mas`ud: The Prophet (ﷺ) said to me, "Recite (the Qur'an) to me." I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) Shall I recite (the Qur'an) to you while it has been revealed to you?" He said, "Yes." So I recited Surat-An-Nisa' (The Women), but when I recited the Verse: 'How (will it be) then when We bring from each nation a witness, and We bring you (O Muhammad) as a witness against these people' (Surah 4: Ayah 41). He said, "Enough for the present." I looked at him and behold! His eyes were overflowing with tears.
Hadith - 75
Narrated Sufyan: Ibn Shubruma said, "I wanted to see how much of the Qur'an can be enough (to recite in prayer) and I could not find a Surah containing less than three Verses, therefore I said (to myself), "One ought not to recite less than three (Quranic) Verses (in prayer)."
Hadith - 76
Narrated Abu Mas'ud: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If somebody recites the last two Verses of Surat al-Baqara at night, it will be sufficient for him."
Hadith - 77
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Amr bin Al-`As: My father got me married to a lady of a noble family, and often used to ask my wife about me, and she used to reply, "What a wonderful man he is! He never comes to my bed, nor has he approached me since he married me." When this state continued for a long period, my father told the story to the Prophet who said to my father, "Let me meet him." Then I met him and he asked me, "How do you fast?" I replied, "I fast daily." He asked, "How long does it take you to finish the recitation of the whole Qur'an?" I replied, "I finish it every night." On that, he said, "Fast for three days every month and recite the Qur'an (and finish it) in one month." I said, "But I have power to do more than that." He said, "Then fast for three days per week." I said, "I have the power to do more than that." He said, "Therefore, fast the most superior type of fasting, that is, the fasting of (prophet) David, who used to fast every alternate day; and finish the recitation of the whole Qur'an in seven days." I wish I had accepted the permission of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as I have become a weak old man. It is said that `Abdullah used to recite one-seventh of the Qur'an during the day-time to some of his family members, for he used to check his memorization of what he would recite at night during the daytime so that it would be easier for him to read at night. And whenever he wanted to gain some strength, he used to give up fasting for some days and count those days to fast for a similar period, for he disliked to leave those things which he used to do during the lifetime of the Prophet.
Hadith - 78
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Amr: The Prophet (ﷺ) asked me, "How long does it take you to finish the recitation of the whole Qur'an?"
Hadith - 79
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Amr: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said to me, "Recite the whole Qur'an in one month's time." I said, "But I have power (to do more than that)." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Then finish the recitation of the Qur'an in seven days, and do not finish it in less than this period."
Hadith - 80
Narrated `Abdullah (bin Mas`ud): Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said (to me), "Recite the Qur'an to me." I said, "Shall I recite (it) to you while it has been revealed to you?" He said, "I like to hear it from another person." So I recited Surat An-Nisa (The Women) till I reached the Verse: 'How (will it be) then when We bring from each nation a witness, and We bring you (O Muhammad) as a witness against these people' (Surah 4: Ayah 41). Then he said to me, "Stop!" Thereupon I saw his eyes overflowing with tears.
Hadith - 81
Narrated `Abdullah bin Masud: The Prophet (ﷺ) said to me, "Recite Qur'an to me." I said to him, "Shall I recite (it) to you while it has been revealed to you?" He said, "I like to hear it from another person."
Hadith - 82
Narrated `Ali: I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "In the last days (of the world) there will appear young people with foolish thoughts and ideas. They will give good talks, but they will go out of Islam as an arrow goes out of its game, their faith will not exceed their throats. So, wherever you find them, kill them, for there will be a reward for their killers on the Day of Resurrection."
Hadith - 83
Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri: I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "There will appear some people among you whose prayer will make you look down upon yours, and whose fasting will make you look down upon yours, but they will recite the Qur'an which will not exceed their throats (they will not act on it) and they will go out of Islam as an arrow goes out through the game whereupon the archer would examine the arrowhead but see nothing, and look at the unfeathered arrow but see nothing, and look at the arrow feathers but see nothing, and finally he suspects to find something in the lower part of the arrow."
Hadith - 84
Narrated Abu Musa: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The example of a believer who recites the Qur'an and acts on it is like a citron which tastes nice and smells nice. And the example of a believer who does not recite the Qur'an but acts on it, is like a date which tastes good but has no smell. And the example of a hypocrite who recites the Qur'an is like a Raihana (sweet basil) which smells good but tastes bitter. And the example of a hypocrite who does not recite the Qur'an is like a colocynth which tastes bitter and has a bad smell."
Hadith - 85
Narrated `Abdullah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Recite (and study) the Qur'an as long as you agree about its interpretation, but if you have any difference of opinion (as regards to its interpretation and meaning) then you should stop reciting it (for the time being)."
Hadith - 86
Narrated Jundub: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Recite (and study) the Qur'an as long as you agree about its interpretation, but when you have any difference of opinion (as regards its interpretation and meaning) then you should stop reciting it (for the time being)."
Hadith - 87
Narrated `Abdullah: That he heard a man reciting a Quranic Verse which he had heard the Prophet (ﷺ) reciting in a different way. So he took that man to the Prophet (and told him the story). The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Both of you are reciting in a correct way, so carry on reciting." The Prophet (ﷺ) further added, "The nations which were before you were destroyed (by Allah) because they differed."
